BOTH OF YOU ARE TO THE
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12TH GET MY
MICROPHONE ON 20/20 FOR A
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA
ZOOME.
WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
HYBRID MEETING SIMILARLY TO AN
IN-PERSON MEETING.
>> HOWEVER, PLEASE BE PATIENT
IF THERE ARE TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WHO WOULD LIKE TO
COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR OTHER
MATTERS MAY DO SO IN PERSON OR
VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK DURING ANY
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
OPPORTUNITIES.
>> PLEASE CALL 206 THREE THREE
SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN ENTER MEETING ID NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CTM AND CAN BE FOUND
ON XFINITY CHANNEL 16 AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE STREAMING
ONLINE ON YOUTUBE OR AT A TUGUN
DOGPATCH CTM MISS THATCHER WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
SERVICE.
>> OK MR. ROSS PRESIDENT
COMMISSIONER FORTNER HERE MR.
KAPLAN COMMISSIONER SMITH UH
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE MR.
CALDERON HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM
AND ONE MORE IS EXPECTED.
>> VERY GOOD THANK YOU.
OK SO WE CAN TAKE A LOOK AT THE
AGENDA FOR THIS EVENING AND I'M
JUST CURIOUS IF THERE'S ANY
CHANGES TO THE PRINTED AGENDA.
OK, SEEING NONE AND WITHOUT
OBJECTION YOUR AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED.
>> AND NEXT ON THE AGENDA IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED ON THE
PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS AGENDA
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
APPROACH THE PODIUM OR JOIN THE
MEETING USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE AGENDA IN THE
VIDEO FEED.
>> I'M WONDERING IF WE HAVE ANY
VIRTUAL PARTICIPANTS THIS
EVENING.
WE DO BUT NO ONE IS INDICATING
THEY'D LIKE TO SPEAK.
>> OK, YOU CAN HIT STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE OR RAISE YOUR HAND
IN THE ZOOME ROOM IF YOU'D
LIKE.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE APPROACHING
THE PODIUM SO I WILL ASSUME
THAT NO ONE WANTS TO SPEAK FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT AND WE WILL MOVE
ON TO ANY UNFINISHED BUSINESS
AND WE DO NOT HAVE ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO WE'LL GO
RIGHT TO F HEARINGS AND WE'LL
HEAR THE STAFF REPORT FOR OUR
FIRST HEARING WHICH IS EF1 543
DETROIT ST. MISS THATCHER
PLEASE.
THANK YOU
.
OK, TO THREE DETROIT STREET HAS
BEEN CALLED TIMES AND SO I
THINK MOST OF YOU ARE FAMILIAR
WITH IT.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE THE
COMPLETE HISTORY BUT IT IS THE
CIRCA EIGHTEEN FIFTIES THORPE
FRANK HOUSE AND IT'S ONE OF OUR
OLDEST HOUSES.
>> HTC HAS APPROVED WORK ON
THIS HOUSE IN DECEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO AND MARCH
AND JUNE MARCH OF 2003 IN JUNE
OF 2004 AND THE ACTION IS NOW
RETURNING TO HTC APPROVAL FOR A
TRASH ENCLOSURE FENCE RETAINING
WALL AND STAIRS GRAVEL AND
PAVED PATHS AND GRAVEL AND
PAPER PATIOS.
LET ME RUN THROUGH THE PHOTOS
AND THE DRAWINGS SO FRONT
OF THE HOUSE I WANTED TO POINT
OUT THE DORMER UP HERE.
REMEMBER THAT WAS AN EARLIER
APPLICATION THAT WAS APPROVED
AND I THINK IT LOOKS VERY
SUBTLE QUITE FRANKLY MIGHT NOT
HAVE NOTICED IT IF I WASN'T
EXACTLY IN THIS SPOT TRYING TO
GET A PICTURE OF IT.
THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSE NOW WE'RE MOVING AROUND
TO THE BACK.
>> THIS WAS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
WORK.
IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S QUITE
STARTLING WHEN YOU FIRST GO
BACK THERE.
BUT IF YOU RECALL THIS WAS A
BANK OF NON ORIGINAL WINDOWS
THAT WERE REPLACED WITH THE
SAME SIZE WINDOWS THIS WAS A
QUMU WALL BASEMENT WALL THAT
HAS SLIDER'S INSTALLED AND THIS
IS THE NEW ADDITION WITH A DECK
ON TOP OF IT AND THIS KITCHEN
PUMP OUT WAS
ALSO NEW AND
HERE'S THAT LITTLE DORMER FROM
THE BACK.
THIS APPLICATION IS ABOUT
LANDSCAPING IN THE ENTIRE
BACKYARD AND INCLUDING LOWERING
THE GRADE OF THE MOST OF THE
BACKYARD BY A COUPLE OF FEET.
I'LL GET TO THAT MORE WHEN WE
GET TO THE STAFF REPORTS.
BUT YOU CAN SEE HERE THAT
THERE'S SORT OF A TRENCH DUG
AROUND THE HOUSE WHERE IT'S
ALREADY THE THE GREAT HAS
ALREADY BEEN DROPPED.
THIS IS THE THIS IS THE SIDE
YARD ON THE NORTH SIDE.
>> THIS IS THE BACK OF THAT NEW
EDITION WITH THE DECK ON TOP
OF IT AND THE NEXT TWO SIDES
ARE JUST PICTURES OF THE
BACKYARD.
THIS HOUSE FACES BIG STREET.
>> THIS IS THE BACK OF A HOUSE
ON BEALE STREET BIG TREE WAS
TAKEN DOWN SOME TIME AGO
BECAUSE IT WAS DISEASED AND WAS
A HAZARD.
HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW OF THE
BACKYARD.
THERE ARE TREES HERE BUT
THEY'RE MOSTLY AROUND THE
PERIMETER ACTUALLY THEY'RE ALL
AROUND THE PERIMETER NOW.
SOME OF THEM ARE JUST SCRUBBY
STUFF THAT'S GROWN UP IN.
>> SOME OF THEM ARE BIGGER
TREES.
ANOTHER VIEW OF THE BACKYARD
HERE WE'RE STANDING IN THE BACK
LOOKING OUT THE DRIVEWAY TOWARD
DETROIT ST. THIS IS THE DECK ON
TOP OF THE LOWER LEVEL ED. AND
THESE ARE A COUPLE
OF APPLICATION PHOTOS JUST
SHOWING THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
VIEW FROM THE STREET LOOKING
DOWN THE DRIVEWAY NOTICED
THERE'S A BIG TREE HERE WHICH
IT'S PROBABLY ON THE NEIGHBOR'S
LOT BUT THAT'S OK.
IT'S THERE'S NOT PROPOSING TO
DO ANYTHING WITH IT.
SO THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND THE FRONT PORCH.
THERE'S A FENCE THAT'S AT THE
END OF THE DRIVEWAY.
THIS IS WHERE WE ARE NOW AND IT
IS SCREENING A BUILT INTO IT IS
A TRASH ENCLOSURE WITH A LITTLE
SHED ROOF JUST A PLACE TO KEEP
THE CANS SO THAT THEY'RE NOT
SITTING OUT IN VIEW OF THE
STREET, THE LANDSCAPE PLAN IS
EXTENSIVE.
SO I ASK THE APPLICANT IF THEY
WOULD LABEL ALL OF THE THINGS
THAT ARE NEW BUT AFTER LOOKING
AT THOSE PHOTOS YOU'LL PROBABLY
REALIZE THAT SOME OF THESE
TREES ARE HERE AROUND THE
PERIMETER.
BUT THERE'S PRETTY MUCH NOTHING
ELSE IN THE BACK.
SO A LOT OF WORK PROPOSED HERE
AS A REMINDER OF THE GREAT
FALLS OFF STEEPLY.
>> THERE'S SORT OF A FLAT SPACE
BACK HERE WHERE YOU WOULD WALK
OUT OF THE BASEMENT AND IT
DROPS ONLY A LITTLE BIT MORE
BACK TO THE BACKYARD.
BUT THIS HILL HERE FROM THE END
OF THE DRIVEWAY DOWN TOWARD THE
BACK IS IS PRETTY STEEP.
>> THAT'S AN ELEVATION CHANGE
OF ABOUT SIX FEET.
THIS IS JUST SHOWING THE SLOPES
ARE FOR GRADING AND DRAINAGE
AND EVERYTHING THAT HAS A
LITTLE SQUARE HERE WITH THE
LABEL WITH A LETTER IS NEW WORK
AND WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
TO FLIP BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN
THE MATERIAL SCHEDULE ASAJI AND
THE PROPOSED WORK.
>> SO STARTING FROM THE FRONT
COUPLE OF NEW CONCRETE
AGGREGATES SLABS IN THE FRONT
TO THE FRONT WALK THE THE
DRIVEWAY IS A B THAT IS CHIPPED
GRAVEL SO GRAVEL DRIVEWAY THIS
IS WHERE THE TRASH ENCLOSURE IS
AND IT COULD BE THIS ONE I'M
NOT SURE THIS IS PROBABLY A
GATE MAYBE THIS IS A TRASH
ENCLOSURE BUT NO THIS IS A
TRASH ENCLOSURE ANYWAY THIS AI
IS ALL AGAIN THAT EXPOSED
AGGREGATE CONCRETE SO YOU WOULD
GO OVER HERE THIS IS LIKE A
LITTLE THIS IS LIKE A LITTLE
PATIO BASICALLY BETWEEN THE
FENCE WITH THE GATE AND THE
TRASH ENCLOSURE.
THESE ARE THE STAIRS GOING UP
TO THE NEW DECK.
THESE ARE STEPS GOING DOWN TO
THE BACKYARD.
THESE ARE BIG SLABS AND THEN
LET'S SEE WHAT ARE STAIRS
EASTERNERS ARE EXPOSED TO
AGGREGATE STEPS.
>> OK, GOING DOWN LITTLE
LANDING HERE DOWN A FEW MORE
STEPS HERE WE'VE GOT LANDING
PADS THAT LARGER RECTANGLES
LEAD TO A PATIO HERE.
>> THAT'S AGAIN THE EXPOSED
CONCRETE TRY TO PICTURE IT WITH
NO FURNITURE ON IT AND IT'S
JUST A SERIES OF OF SQUARES
BACK THERE.
>> OK, IF WE'RE BACK UP ON THE
DRIVEWAY AGAIN AND WE WALK DOWN
THIS WAY OFF OF THIS PATIO, WE
GO ON A GRAVEL PATH THAT
FOLLOWS THE SIDE YARD LINE.
THERE'S SOME SORT OF FOCAL
POINT DOWN HERE AND THESE ARE
NEW TREES, ALL OF THEM AND THIS
TREE IS SITTING ON TOP OF A
RETAINING WALL THAT IS UP TO
FOUR FEET TALL THAT SORT
OF WRAPS AROUND THE BACK
OF THIS PATIO AND YOU KNOW,
KEEPS THE THE BUSY FRONT
SEPARATE FROM WHAT'S GOING ON
IN THE BACKYARD.
>> THERE'S A NEW FENCE.
>> WHAT'S D OR D IS THAT'S THE
RETAINING WALL VENEER VENEER
AND CAP VENEER TO MATCH THE
FOUNDATION OF THE NEW EDITION
OF THE HOUSE OR THE WALL OF THE
NEW EDITION AND IT IS THREE TO
FOUR FEET TALL THEN WE'VE GOT F
IS A FENCE GOING AROUND MOST
OF THE PROPERTY AND THAT IS
I'LL TELL YOU LATER HOW TALL IT
IS.
THIS IS A 2004 FILE PHOTO.
I THINK MOST OF YOU I'VE SEEN
THAT BY NOW RIGHT AFTER THE
ALUMINUM SIDING WAS TAKEN OFF
FROM THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS, THE STANDARDS BEST
APPLY OUR NUMBER TWO WHICH SAYS
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF A
PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY
SHALL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
>> THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE
UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
OF THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
WOULD BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THESE
STANDARDS FOR FROM SORRY FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
NOT RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING
A NEW LANDSCAPE FEATURE
INCLUDING PLANT MATERIAL THAT'S
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE
SITE OR THAT ALTERS OR DESTROYS
THE HISTORIC SITE PATTERNS OR
VISITORS RECOMMENDED IN
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING IS IDENTIFYING,
RETAINING AND PRESERVING
BUILDING AND LANDSCAPE FEATURES
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
SETTING ULTRA RECOMMENDED AS
RETAINING THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS
,THE LANDSCAPE FEATURES OF THE
SETTING.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE ANY NEW BUILDING
STREETSCAPE OR LANDSCAPE
FEATURE THAT IS OUT OF SCALE OR
OTHERWISE APPROPRIATE TO THE
DISTRICT'S HISTORIC CHARACTER
AND THAT IS MY LAST SLIDE FOR
THIS.
>> SO KEEP IN MIND WHEN YOU'RE
REVIEWING THIS, THIS IS A THIS
IS A FAIRLY SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE
TO THE BACKYARD.
>> I'M GOING TO GO THROUGH A
FEW MORE DETAILS BUT ALSO
REMEMBER THAT THIS SLOPES
DOWNWARD AND A LOT OF THIS WILL
BE INVISIBLE FROM ST. LET'S SEE
THE PROPOSAL INCLUDES A SIX
FOOT TALL WOOD ALTERNATING
FENCE SURROUNDING THE BACKYARD
FENCE HAS A GATE ON EACH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE
.
THE WORK VISIBLE FROM THE
STREET INCLUDES TWO NO EXPOSED
AGGREGATE RECTANGULAR SLABS
LEADING TO THE FRONT PORCH AND
A NEW GRAVEL PATH ON THE
NORTHEAST SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
>> AND IT WAS IT WAS IT WAS IN
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE SITE VISIT
WHICH TOOK PLACE LAST MONTH
WHEN THE APPLICANT WAS TELLING
US ABOUT THE INTENT TO GRADE
THE ENTIRE BACK YARD OVER HERE
BEHIND THE HOUSE AND DROP THE
GRADE.
>> I THINK IT WAS A TWO FEET A
COUPLE OF FEET.
SO WHEN WE PULL THE APPLICANT
INTO THE MEETING WE CAN HAVE
HIM TALK MORE ABOUT THAT WHEN
IT'S HIS TURN TO TALK.
SO STAFF BELIEVES THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND DOES
NOT COMPROMISE ANY CHARACTER
FINDING FEATURES OF THE HOUSE
OR YARD.
>> THE DESIGN IS A MORE MODERN
STYLE BUT COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HOUSE AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD ETC.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MISS THATCHER WILL NOW MOVE ON
TO THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
AND IT'S MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER FORTNER WERE ON
SITE.
SO WOULD YOU LIKE TO GIVE YOUR
REPORT PLEASE?
YEAH, I THINK I'LL JUST
REITERATE WHAT YOU SAID ABOUT
NOT NONE OF THIS WORK BEING
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET EXCEPT
FOR THE DRIVEWAY AND WALKWAY
ALONG THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING GIVEN THE FENCE ACROSS
THE DRIVEWAY AND THE FACT THAT
MOST OF THE ARTISTS LOWERED
FROM STREET LEVEL IT WAS YOU
KNOW, HISTORICALLY MULTI LEVEL
SLOPING YARD AND IT WILL STILL
BE THOUGH MORE FORMALIZED AND
ORGANIZED.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I AGREE WITH WHAT I HEARD IN
THE STAFF REPORT AND ALSO WITH
YOUR REPORT.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO ADD
ANYTHING BECAUSE IT WOULD JUST
BE REPEATING WORD FOR WORD
EXACTLY WHAT YOU SAID.
>> SO THANK YOU.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT COMMENTS.
SO DO WE HAVE THE APPLICANT IN
JUNE?
>> WE DO.
LET ME WRITE ABOUT HIM.
YEAH, WE'RE GOING TO PROMOTE
YOU AND PLEASE WHEN WHEN WE DO
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD AND THEN YOU
HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND JUST PLEASE COMMENT
ON WHATEVER YOU'D LIKE TO AS
WELL AS WHAT YOU HEARD IN THE
STAFF REPORT AND THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> BEAR WITH US.
RYAN, WE'RE TRYING TO PROMOTE
YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THERE YOU ARE.
>> RYAN, ARE YOU THERE?
>> I AM HERE.
WONDERFUL.
DO YOU HAVE ANY PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AND THEN
LET US KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANY
COMMENTS HERE.
MY NAME IS RYAN YOUNGBLOOD IN
OUR OFFICE ADDRESS IS 512
MADISON AVENUE, ROCHESTER,
MICHIGAN.
I DON'T HAVE ANY COMMENTS.
I THINK THAT THE
JOE THAT A
VERY THOROUGH AND GOOD JOB AS
FAR AS EXPLAINING THE PROJECT
AS INTENDED AND PROPOSED BUT
I'M HERE FOR ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY MAY HAVE.
>> WELL, THE STAFF REPORT
MENTIONED SOMETHING ABOUT JUST
A REQUIREMENT KIND OF LIKE A
NEW REQUIREMENT THAT THAT WAS
TO DROP THE SITE TWO FEET
BECAUSE OF DRAINAGE.
>> CAN YOU JUST KIND OF EXPLAIN
WHAT WHAT THAT'S WHAT WHAT THE
PLAN IS THE PROPOSAL IS FOR
THAT.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
>> GREAT QUESTION FOR WHEN
WE'RE A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
FIRM AND WHEN WE WERE CALLED ON
SITE STRUCTURE RENOVATION WAS
ALREADY COMPLETE AND AGREED TO
ESTABLISH WITH THE WALK OUT
ELEVATION TO THE BASEMENT SO WE
HAVE TO WE HAVE TO NOW MAKE IT
WORK AND THAT'S WHAT WE'VE DONE
IN OUR SITE SURVEYS AND SITE
STUDY PROCESS AND THE WATER
PRIOR TO US COMING ON THE SITE
PRIOR TO RENOVATION TO SAY DID
RUN FROM THE REAR OF THE HOME
BACK TOWARD THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY AND YES, WE ARE
LOWERING THE GRAVE OF THE WATER
AS SHOWN IN ALL EXISTING AND
PROPOSED DRAINAGE PLANS.
WE'LL STILL BE MAKING THAT SAME
MOTION FROM THE HOUSE BACK
TOWARDS YOUR PROPERTY.
IT MUST BE DOING IT AT A LOWER
GRADE.
SO AT ONE POINT THE GRADE WAS
HIGHER BECAUSE THERE WAS NO
WALKOUT IN THE BASEMENT AND SO
THEY THE ARCHITECT DECIDED THEY
HAD WINDOWS AND THAT WALKOUT
WHICH LOWER THAT ELEVATION AT
THE PERIMETER OF THE HOME.
AND SO WE ARE SIMPLY JUST
LOWERING TO THAT GRADE SO THE
PEOPLE CAN HAVE ACCESS IN AND
OUT OF THAT WALK OUT BASEMENT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT EXPLANATION.
I'M WONDERING IF ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY ACTUALLY
.
YEAH.
ARE THERE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
>> NO.
OK, ALL RIGHT RYAN, HANG OUT
FOR ONE SECOND.
WE'RE GOING TO DO THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND THEN HAVE A
DISCUSSION AND WE MIGHT HAVE
FURTHER QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
>> OK, THANKS.
>> OK, SO NOW WE'LL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AT FIVE FORTY THREE
DETROIT ST. AND PUBLIC COMMENT
MAY BE MADE IN PERSON OR BY
JOINING THE MEETING VIRTUALLY
TO ELECTRONIC RAISE YOUR HAND
HIT STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE THAT LOOKS
LIKE THEY WANT TO COMMENT?
OK, NO ONE HERE AS WELL.
>> SO THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION OF THIS APPLICATION IS
NOW CLOSED AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO
ASKING ANY COMMISSIONER IF
THEY'D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION.
>> YES, I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION APPROVED THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE FOUR THREE
DETROIT STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO EDIT TRASH
AND CLOSER CLOSURE WOULD FENCE
RETAINING WALL AND STAIRS,
GRAVEL AND PAPER PATHS AND
GRAVEL AND PAPER PATIOS ON THE
CONDITION THAT THE WOOD FENCE
DOES NOT EXCEED SIX FEET IN
HEIGHT.
THE WORK IS CONDITIONED
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AND THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTS
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE FEATURES
SECOND THANK YOU THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
OH I GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION.
I MEAN I'M NOT A LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT BUT IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE THE SPECIES OF ANY
OF THESE PLANTINGS ARE CALLED
OUT AND I GUESS I DON'T KNOW.
I'M I'M JUST CURIOUS ARE LIKE
OTHER BATS HISTORICALLY
INCOMPATIBLE LANDSCAPE SPECIES
THAT SHOULDN'T BE CLIMATE.
I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH.
THAT BEING A LANDSCAPE HAD BEEN
I MEAN I LOVE TREES AND PLANTS
SO IT LOOKS GREAT TO ME BUT I
DON'T THINK THAT'S A QUESTION
FOR RYAN OR OR A QUESTION FOR
US IF THERE IS SUCH A THING
THAT WE CARE WHAT THE SCHOOL
WOULD THINK IT WOULD FALL INTO
THE IT COULD BE REMOVED WITH NO
IMPACT IF THEY WERE CONSIDERED
INAPPROPRIATE OR IN OTHER
REMOVALS.
>> OK, YES, I THINK SO.
LIKE I SAID, I LOVE LOVE
LANDSCAPING SO I A GOOD POINT
I'M WONDERING IF ANYONE ON THE
COMMISSION HAS AS ANY ISSUE
WITH THE LIKE THE FRONT WALK IS
GOING TO BE EXPOSED AGGREGATE
WITH ACTUALLY RYAN WHAT IS THE
EXPOSED AGGREGATE ON THE FRONT
WALK IS THERE LIKE A GRAVEL
TRIM TO THAT OR IS THERE A
TRIMMERS AND GRASS TRIM?
YOU HEAR ME?
>> YES.
YEAH IT'S A GRASS TRIM.
OK, SO THEN THE QUESTION IS
DOES ANYONE HAVE AN ISSUE?
>> IT'S SORT OF LIKE A MODERN
SETUP WHERE YOU HAVE KIND OF A
RECTANGLE.
IT'S NOT THEY'RE NOT OFFSET OR
ANYTHING SO IT'S NOT IT'S LIKE
ONE STEP BACK FROM THAT BUT
IT'S NOT THE KIND OF CONTINUOUS
WALK UP THERE.
>> IT'S REALLY ONE OF THE ONLY
PARTS BESIDES A FENCE THAT
YOU'LL BE ABLE TO SEE.
>> IT'S TO ME IT'S IT'S IT'S
NOT IT'S NOT NOT APPROPRIATE
BUT IT'S NOT LIKE THE MOST
APPROPRIATE CHOICE BUT IT'S
LIKE WITHIN THE BALLPARK.
THINK OF WHAT YOU COULD DO.
BUT I'M JUST CURIOUS IF ANYONE
FELT DIFFERENTLY ABOUT THAT.
>> I AGREE WITH YOU.
IT IS PRETTY MODERN BUT IT'S
NOT DEMONSTRABLY INAPPROPRIATE.
>> OK AND IT'S PRETTY SMALL.
>> IT'S NOT A BIG FEATURE RIGHT
THERE.
>> YEAH IT'S WIDER THAN IT
NEEDS TO BE THAT'S FOR SURE.
BUT IT'S NOT TOO WIDE OK
THEY'VE THEY'VE THEY'VE WALKED
THE LINE THERE IT SEEMS I THINK
THAT SINCE SINCE ALMOST ALL
OF THIS IS GOING TO BE VISIBLE
FROM THE SIDEWALK IT MAKES THE
FACT THAT IT'S BETTER MORE
MODERN AND I MEAN IT'S KIND
OF LIKE THE HOUSE ITSELF WHERE
YOU HAVE WHAT YOU CAN SEE
THERE'S THAT LITTLE DORMER AND
THEN YOU GO IN THE BACKYARD AND
IT'S LIKE THE MODERN IT LOOKS
LIKE A MODERN HOUSE AND I THINK
THE LANDSCAPE IS MORE OR LESS
GOING TO BE THE SAME EXCEPT FOR
A FEW LITTLE CLUES IN THE FRONT
.
I ALSO THINK THAT THE THE
MATERIALS THAT ARE BEING USED
ARE LIKE VERY HIGH QUALITY.
SO THAT ALSO KIND OF ELEVATES
IT AND MAKES IT LOOK
APPROPRIATE TO TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SO I THINK THAT'S WHY I'M
NOT HEARING MUCH IN TERMS
OF COMMENTS.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
SHOULD WE WRAP THIS UP OK, I'M
NOT SEEING ANYTHING SO LET'S
MOVE TO A VOTE.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
OK, THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> SO THANK YOU RYAN CIVICUS.
YOUR QUESTION OF COURSE MAYBE
MORE SO FOR JILL AND JILL OR
DAVE OR ANYBODY IN THE ROOM
COULD ANSWER AT A LATER DATE TO
OUR CURRENT PERMANENT STATUS
WITH ANN ARBOR ON A GRADING
PERMIT WHICH WOULD PERMIT US TO
START A PROJECT IS ON PAUSE AND
WAITING FOR A DECISION.
COULD YOU JUST ANSWER IN ANN
ARBOR BECAUSE WE DON'T DO A TON
OF WORK IN ANN ARBOR WHAT IS
THE NEXT STEP AS FAR AS GETTING
THAT TO BE GREEN LIGHT?
>> YEAH, SO I WILL SIGN OFF ON
THAT GRADING PERMIT TOMORROW
WHEN I GET BACK TO THE OFFICE
AND LET PETER STEVENS, THE
GRADING COORDINATOR KNOW THAT
I'M DONE WITH IT AND THEN HE'LL
BE THE LAST SIGN OFF SO YOU
KNOW IT SHOULDN'T TAKE LONG.
YOU'LL BE NOTIFIED WHEN THAT
GRADING PERMIT IS APPROVED VIA
EMAIL.
>> OK, SOUNDS GOOD.
I THINK EACH AND EVERY ONE
OF YOU GUYS TONIGHT FOR YOUR
ATTENTION TO THIS REQUEST IN WE
WORK HARD TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
MAKE THAT PROPERTY LOOK REALLY
GOOD AND AABERG THANKS RYAN.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
HAVE A GREAT EVENING.
>> YOU TOO.
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
LET'S MOVE ON NOW TO HEARING F2
THAT'S THREE HUNDRED THREE OH
TWO SOUTH MAIN STREET.
MISS THATCHER, WHENEVER YOU'RE
READY PLEASE WOULD MARIANNE IS
GOING TO TAKE THIS.
>> OH MARIANO PLEASE THE STAFF
REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO KNOW AHEAD
OF TIME SO LET'S PUT STEP ON
MARIANNE OK WE ARE AT THE
CORNER OF MAIN AND LIBERTY AT
THE BLACK PEARL WHICH IS
CURRENTLY DOING SOME INTERNAL
RENOVATIONS TO COMBINE AND
EXPAND THEIR STOREFRONT WITH
THE STORE FRONT NEXT DOOR AT
THIS CORNER BECAUSE THEY ARE
CURRENTLY RIGHT HERE BUT THEY
DO HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF EXTERIOR WORK PROPOSED AS
PART OF THIS WHICH IS PRIMARILY
THE NEW AWNING REPLACING THE
EXISTING RIGHT HERE AND THEN
ADDING SOME SIGNAGE ON TOP
OF THE CORNER AWNING.
SO AS A HISTORY OF THIS
BUILDING, THE THREE STOREY
BRICK ITALIANATE COMMERCIAL
BLOCK HAS BEEN REMODELED TWICE
ONCE AFTER A MAJOR FIRE IN 1910
AND AGAIN IN NINETEEN SEVENTY
SIX AND THE ROOF WAS RAISED TO
ACCOMMODATE THE DOWNTOWN
BRACKET CLUB ON THE THIRD FLOOR
AND AT THE SAME TIME THE
STOREFRONTS HERE AT THE CORNER
AT THREE HUNDRED AND THREE TWO
S MAIN WERE BOTH REMODELED WITH
THE DARKER BREAKFAST AND THEN
THE DARK ALUMINUM STOREFRONT
WINDOW FRAMES WHICH YOU CAN
KIND OF SEE THIS PICTURE IN TWO
THOUSAND EIGHT IN MAY 2008 THE
BLACK PEARL APPLIED FOR AND WAS
APPROVED TO ADD THE EXISTING
AWNING AND SIGNAGE AND
ACCORDING TO BUILDING PERMITS
RIGHT NEXT DOOR THAT CORNER
BUILDING THAT CANOPY WAS
INSTALLED IN NINETEEN NINETY
SIX
.
>> PREVIOUSLY THERE WAS A
STARBUCKS SIGN ON THE CORNER
AND THIS WAS APPROVED IN 2004
IT WAS IT DID FEATURE
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED CHANNEL
LETTERS THEN IT WAS REMOVED
EARLIER THIS YEAR OR LATE LAST
YEAR WHEN THE STARBUCKS CLOSED.
SO USED TO BE RIGHT ABOUT THIS
AWNING HERE.
>> SO LIKE I SAID THE APPLICANT
SEEKS HGC APPROVAL TO REMOVE
THIS EXISTING AWNING AND THEN
ADD A LARGE FIXED CANOPY HERE
THAT MATCHES THE CORNER
EXISTING CANOPY AND THEN ALSO
PROPOSES NEW SIGNAGE ON THIS
EXISTING CANOPY.
>> SO JUST A SHOT OF THE
THE BRICK IS STILL EXTANT AND
EXISTING CANOPY.
CONDITION UNDERNEATH THE
THE BRICK IS STILL EXTANT AND
CANOPY.
CONDITION UNDERNEATH THE
SO THIS PROPOSAL WILL REMOVE
CANOPY.
THE CANOPY WILL ACTUALLY SHOW
SO THIS PROPOSAL WILL REMOVE
MORE OF THE BRICK.
THE CANOPY WILL ACTUALLY SHOW
>> THIS IS THE EXISTING AT THE
MORE OF THE BRICK.
CORNER AND IT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
>> THIS IS THE EXISTING AT THE
KEPT JUST REPAINTED AND THEN
CORNER AND IT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
SIGNAGE ON TOP ANOTHER SHOT
KEPT JUST REPAINTED AND THEN
OF THE CORNER LOOKING NORTH AT
SIGNAGE ON TOP ANOTHER SHOT
THE EXISTING AWNING
AND THEN
GETTING INTO THE NEW DRAWING.
SO LIKE I SAID, NOTHING IS
GOING TO CHANGE ON THE CORNER
STORE FRONT IN TERMS OF AT THE
STORE FRONT THERE WILL BE SOME
REPAINTING THE BIGGEST CHANGE
WILL BE THE ADDITION OF THE
BLACK PEARL SIGNAGE ON TOP
OF THE MORNING AND IT'LL BE
BOTH ON THE NORTH SIDE AND THEN
HERE ON THE EAST SIDE THEN THE
EXISTING AWNING WILL BE REMOVED
AND A NEW CANOPY IS GOING TO BE
INSTALLED AND IT WILL MATCH THE
EXISTING ON THE CORNER.
THERE WILL BE NO CONNECTION
BETWEEN THEM SO THEY'LL HAVE
THE SAME DESIGN BUT THEY WILL
NOT CONNECT.
THEY'LL BE AT THE SAME HEIGHT.
SAME WITH THIS IS REALLY
INTENDED TO MATCH THE EXISTING
HERE WHICH AGAIN WAS INSTALLED
IN NINETEEN NINETY SIX AND THEN
FROM ABOVE THERE'LL BE SOME NEW
LIGHTING UNDERNEATH THE CANOPY
AND THEN BROADSOFT IT TO MATCH
THE EXISTING ON THE NEW CANOPY
.
>> THEN YOU CAN SEE FROM ABOVE
THAT THEY WON'T BE CONNECTED.
THERE'LL BE ABOUT A FOOT AND A
HALF OF DISTANCE BETWEEN THEM
SO THAT IT WILL BE ONE
RESTAURANT THEY WILL KIND
OF REMAIN VISUALLY WHOSE
STOREFRONTS THEN SIMPLE CANOPY
ATTACHED THROUGH THE CABLE.
AS NOTED, ALL STRUCTURAL
FASTENERS WILL BE WITHIN THE
MORTAR JOINTS NOT WITHIN THE
MASONRY AND THE WITH AND THE
HEIGHT WILL ALIGN WITH THE
EXISTING CANOPY ON THE CORNER.
THEN WE DO HAVE THE NEW SIDE
PROPOSED AND IT WILL HAVE
CHANNEL LETTERS WITH THE
ILLUMINATED SO INTERNAL
ILLUMINATION WITH THE ADREVIEW
ALSO THE FRONT OF THE LETTERS
WILL BE OPAQUE AND THEN THE
EDGES WILL HAVE THE
ILLUMINATION SEE PLACED RIGHT
ON TOP OF THE CANOPY AT THE
EDGE OF THE CANOPY AND THAT'LL
BE ON BOTH BOTH THE NORTH AND
EAST SIDES.
>> AND THEN HERE WE JUST HAVE
SOME RENDERINGS
THEN HERE IS
JUST A SHOT AT WHAT IT USED TO
LOOK LIKE WITH A STARBUCKS SIGN
SOME AN BOOKING PHOTOS
.
SO I THINK JOE ALREADY READ
THESE SO I WILL SKIP THROUGH
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS AND I WILL HIGHLIGHT
SOME OF THE GUIDELINES FROM
BOTH THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR AND THE ENTIRE
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES.
SO A BUILDING SITE IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
BUILDINGS AND ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION TO BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE SITE AND PRESERVE A
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A BUILDING
OR BUILDINGS LANDSCAPE AN OPEN
SPACE IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION INTO
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE
SETTING STIR-FRY IT IS
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE STOREFRONTS AND
ARE FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE
FEATURES AWNINGS.
THEN THESE COME FROM THE
INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO MOUNT A
STANDARD STOREFRONT ON THE
BOTTOM OF THE FRAME IS AT LEAST
SEVEN FEET ABOVE THE ABOVE THE
SIDEWALK THOUGH AID IS
PREFERRED, CONSIDERATION SHOULD
BE GIVEN TO THE HEIGHT
OF NEIGHBORING AWNINGS.
SIMILARLY, IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
ATTACH THE AWNING JUST BELOW
THE STOREFRONT CORNICE AND FIT
IT WITHIN THE OPENING AND TO
MOUNT THE MORTAR JOINTS AND NOT
THROUGH MASONRY AND THEN FOR
SIGNAGE IT'S IMPORTANT AS
APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL SIGNAGE
IN THE HISTORIC SIDEBAND AREA
OF THE BUILDING ENSURING THAT
THE SIGNAGE IS SUBORDINATE TO
THE OVERALL BUILDING
COMPOSITION AND MOUNTING SIGNS
TO FIT WITHIN EXISTING
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
THEN JUST A FEW MORE NOTES FROM
STAFF.
WE BELIEVE THAT THE CANOPY WILL
BE ATTACHED TO THE BUILDING IN
A WAY THAT IS MINIMALLY
INVASIVE AND IF REMOVED WOULD
CAUSE NO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE TO
THE BUILDING AND THE CANOPIES,
HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT ALONG THE
STRIP IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS.
THE MAJORITY OF BUSINESSES
ALONG THIS PORTION OF MAIN
STREET EITHER HAVE ONLY SIGNS
OR AWNINGS AND THERE ARE OTHER
EXAMPLES OF SIMILAR FLAT CANOPY
SUPPORTED BY CABLES AND THIS
STRETCH OF MAIN STREET.
SO DOES BELIEVE THE CANOPY IS
APPROPRIATE.
STAFF HAS SOME HESITANCE ABOUT
THE PROPOSAL FOR THE INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED SIGNAGE BECAUSE IT
DOES NOT FOLLOW DESIGN
GUIDELINES ALTHOUGH THERE ARE
OTHER EXAMPLES OF INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED SIGNS ALONG THIS
PORTION OF MAIN STREET THAT
HAVE BEEN APPROVED.
SO THE HGC WILL DETERMINE
WHETHER THIS PROPOSAL IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS BUILDING
IN THIS LOCATION GEP THANK YOU
MARIJANA OK OK WELL NOW GET THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT SO I
WILL GO TO THE I AGREE WITH
EVERYTHING.
IT WAS VERY WELL SAID.
I THINK IN THE STAFF REPORT
PARTICULARLY AROUND WHAT WAS
SAID ABOUT COMPATABILITY.
>> I MEAN FIRST OF ALL THE
LOCATION I THINK WE'RE IT'S A
VERY IT'S A LOCATION THAT
EVERYONE I THINK IS FAMILIAR
WITH.
SO THERE'S NOT MUCH TO SAY
ABOUT THAT LIBERTY AND MAIN
STREET AND THE COMPATIBILITY
OF THE CANOPY IS USUALLY WE
KIND OF LOOK UP AND DOWN THE
STREET AND VERIFY THAT
NOTHING'S GOING TO BE PROPOSED.
THAT'S THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE OTHER SIGNS
AND AND OTHER FEATURES.
>> AND THIS IS ALREADY
REPLACING SOMETHING THAT'S
CANTILEVERS OVER THE SIDEWALK
AND IT'S GOING TO BE MATCHED
EXACTLY WITH WHAT'S NEXT DOOR
BUT NOT ATTACHED TO.
SO I FELT THE THAT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE IT JUST SEEMED LIKE
THIS WAS WELL THAT WAS THE
SITUATION AT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
>> ANYTHING ADD FOR NOT TO SAY
THAT I APPRECIATE THAT THEY
LEFT THE GAP BETWEEN THE NEW
CANOPY AND THE OLD ONE SO YOU
STILL GET THAT SORT HISTORIC TO
STOREFRONT LOOK VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
>> OK NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
APPLICANT COMMENTS.
SO WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE
APPROACH THE PODIUM, PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS PLEASE.
YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES AND
PLEASE JUST ANY COMMENTS YOU
HAVE WE'D LIKE TO HEAR.
SURE.
MY NAME IS KEITH ROUSSEAU.
I'M AN ARCHITECT AND PRINCIPAL
THE COLLABORATIVE WE'RE AT TWO
ONE THREE SOUTH MAIN STREET
SUITE TWO HUNDRED AND I DON'T
THINK WE HAVE ANYTHING MORE TO
ADD.
WE APPRECIATE THE STAFF
COMMENTS.
WE'RE ESSENTIALLY HERE TO
ANSWER ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
YOU MAY HAVE OK OR NOT ANY
QUESTIONS FOR KEITH?
VERY GOOD.
WELL, TAKE A SEAT.
WE'LL DO THE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND A DISCUSSION AND IF WE HAVE
QUESTIONS WE'LL CALL YOU BACK.
OK, BELITUNG YEAH.
THAT'S ONE THING WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE WE'RE PREPARED TO DO
EXTERNALIZING IF IF YOU'RE OK
WITH THE WAY IT IS NOW.
I MEAN THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
WOULD OBVIOUSLY FOLLOW UP
EITHER WAY BUT WELL WHILE
YOU'RE HERE THAT WAS ONE OF THE
COMMENTS IN THE STAFF REPORT SO
WE MIGHT AS WELL DISCUSS IT NOW
JUST CAN YOU COMMENT ON I GUESS
WE WE ALL COULD HAVE LOOKED AT
THE EXAMPLE THE CHASE BANK BUT
MAYBE IF WE DIDN'T JUST
DESCRIBE WHAT THAT SIGN IS IN
TERMS OF HOW IT'S LIT AND WHERE
THE LIGHTING'S COMING FROM AND
THAT KIND OF THING.
I MEAN IT'S JUST ALMOST LIKE
CHANNEL LETTERS INTERNALLY LIT.
SO YOU KNOW, YOU'VE GOT THE
KIND OF OPAQUE AND THEN LIKE,
YOU KNOW, FORWARD FACING YOU
KNOW, DIFFUSE LIGHTING FOR FOR
THE BLACK PEARL.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT THAT'S AN
OPTION IN THE THE SIGNAGE IS
ACTUALLY STILL BEING DESIGNED
SO AND WE KNOW THAT IT HAS TO
BE SUBMITTED OK AND IF THE
COMMITTEE PREFERS EXTERNALLY WE
WE UNDERSTAND THAT TOO.
OK, NOW WHAT YOU JUST DESCRIBED
I THOUGHT I WAS EXPECTING TO
HEAR YOU SAY THAT THE EDGE WAS
THE TRANSLUCENT PART AND THE
FRONT WAS OPAQUE BUT I THOUGHT
WHAT I HEARD YOU SAY WAS THE
OP.
SO I I BELIEVE THAT THAT'S
INCORRECT.
OK, I I MADE IT CLEAR I MAY
NEED TO CHECK WITH THE TEAM AND
CLARIFY THAT I THE PROPOSAL
SAYS EDGERLY SIGN IS THAT WHAT
YOU WERE THINKING OR NO I
I WAS
ASSUMING THAT IT WAS KIND
OF LIKE FRONT LIKE LIVE FROM
THE FRONT EXTERNALLY INTERNALLY
INTERNALLY LIT WITH A
TRANSLUCENT FRONT.
>> OK WELL IS THAT A CONFUSION
IS THAT WELL IT'S NOT WHAT WAS
IN THE APPLICATION.
>> YEAH.
IS THE CONFUSION AND WE DON'T
ALLOW INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED
CHANNEL LIGHTS WHICH IS WHY AT
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE SITE VISIT
THERE WAS SOME TALK ABOUT THE
EDGE LIT INSTEAD SINCE THE
INTERIOR LIGHTING WAS PROBABLY
NOT GOING TO BE PROVIDED OK I
THINK THAT'S WHY IT WAS
CHANGED.
>> WELL LET'S FIGURE OUT WHAT'S
GOING TO BE PROPOSED THEN.
BUT YOU'RE SAYING IT'S STILL I
WOULD STICK WITH WHAT'S
PROPOSED IN THE APPLICATION.
>> I MAY I MAY BE MISTAKEN.
MY APOLOGIES.
FAIR ENOUGH.
THAT'S OK.
OK SO LET'S LET'S CONTINUE THEN
WE'LL CALL YOU BACK UP IF WE
HAVE QUESTIONS BUT BEFORE WE
MOVE ON CAN WE JUST CONFIRM UH
THAT OR WAIT MARIJANA IN THE
STAFF REPORT CAN YOU JUST SHOW
US WHAT WAS PROPOSED JUST SO
KIND OF RESET WHAT WE SHOULD BE
THINKING?
>> YES.
I MEAN OBVIOUSLY IT YEAH.
YEAH
.
>> SO HERE WE HAVE THE
TRANSLUCENT EDGE AND OPAQUE
SIGNS WITH CONCEALED INTERNAL
IT OK VERY GOOD AND THAT'S WHAT
WE'LL MOVE FORWARD WITH.
>> THANK YOU FOR CONFIRMING
THAT.
GREAT.
NOW LET'S MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM AT THREE
HUNDRED THREE OH TWO S MAIN
STREET.
SO IF SOMEONE WOULD LIKE TO
APPROACH THE PODIUM OR HIT STAR
NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND, NOW'S
YOUR CHANCE.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY ONE GREAT.
NO ONE IS.
>> THERE'S NO LONGER ANYONE IN
ATTENDANCE VIRTUALLY OK, VERY
GOOD.
>> THEN THE PUBLIC VIEWING
PORTION OF THIS APPLICATION IS
CLOSED AND WE CAN MOVE ON TO
COMMISSIONER MAKING A MOTION
WITH ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION BUT WE DO HAVE WE
HAVE ANOTHER ONE THE APPLICANT
TEAM ON ZOOM AND THEY HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND.
IS NOW THE APPROPRIATE TIME TO
APPEAR.
>> OK, LET'S WE GOT TO GET THE
OTHER TEAM MEMBER IN.
ARE YOU THERE?
YES.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
WHO IS THIS BITSTAMP CAFI KBG
YES.
CONSTRUCTION AND I JUST WANT TO
WHO IS THIS BITSTAMP CAFI KBG
GO OVER THE SIDE.
CONSTRUCTION AND I JUST WANT TO
I KNOW THERE WAS A SAM ARE YOU
GO OVER THE SIDE.
THERE THE CONFUSION THE SIGN AS
I KNOW THERE WAS A SAM ARE YOU
I FOLLOW THE HTC OTTLEY AND
THERE THE CONFUSION THE SIGN AS
I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH THE SAME
I FOLLOW THE HTC OTTLEY AND
COMPANY AND VERY FAMILIAR WITH
I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH THE SAME
THE
SAM ARE YOU THERE?
>> YEAH WE HEARD YOU YOU SAID
YOUR WORKING WITH THE SIGN
COMPANY AND THEY'RE FAMILIAR
AND THEN YOU CUT OUT DOES IT
LOOK LIKE HE'S THERE?
>> SAM, CAN YOU HEAR US?
>> WE CANNOT HEAR YOU.
>> OK WELL LET'S MOVE ON AND
THEN SAM WILL JUST MAKE HIS
COMMENT WHEN WHEN HE COMES BACK
IN WILL BE SURE TO LOOP HIM.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, LET'S MAKE
A MOTION AND COMMISSIONER
WILLING TO DO THAT I CAN DO IT
GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
I MOVE THAT ADMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT THREE
HUNDRED THROUGH THREE OR TWO
SOUTH MAIN STREET ATTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO AT A FIXED
CANOPY IS PROPOSED A NEW
CHANNEL OR SIGNAGE ON THE
CONDITION THAT THE SIGNAGE IS
EXTERNALLY LIT, THE WORK IS
CONDITIONED IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA IT MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDS FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE TO TEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING STOREFRONTS COMMERCIAL
CONNINGTON SIGN SECOND GRADE
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
ROSS AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
SAM, ARE YOU THERE?
CAN YOU HEAR US SAY SAY HI.
>> HI.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES.
CAN YOU CAN YOU CAN CAN YOU
CONTINUE YOUR COMMENT PLEASE.
>> YES AND THIS SIGN WILL BE A.
BACKLIT ALL OF BY HTC
RESTRICTIONS AND THE
COMPANY
I'M WORKING WITH THE VERY
FAMILIAR WITH THE OTHER
RESTRICTIONS ACTUALLY CNN ARBER
OK SAM WHAT I JUST HEARD YOU
SAY IS THAT THE SIGN WAS GOING
TO BE INTERNALLY BACKLIT AND TO
ME THAT'S TWO DIFFERENT THINGS.
WHAT CAN YOU EXPLAIN THAT IS
THAT WE WILL NOT HAVE ANY
LIGHTING IN FRONT OF IT.
OK, I THINK WE'LL BE THERE WILL
BE NO ALUMINUM FRONT OK IS IT
LIT FROM INTERNALLY OR IS IT
LIT EXTERNALLY FROM THE BACK
BEHIND US YOU CUT OUT DID YOU
SAY EXTERNALLY?
YES.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK VERY GOOD OK I APPRECIATE
THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WE WILL WE WILL LET YOU KNOW
IF YOU HAVE FURTHER QUESTIONS
OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH THANK YOU.
OK SO THAT ACTUALLY WELL NOW WE
HAVE A MOTION THAT MATCHES THE
PROPOSAL AT THE LAST SECOND
BECAUSE THE PROPOSAL SAID
EDGETT AND AND THE MOTION SAID
THAT IT'S CONDITIONED ON BEING
EXTERNALLY IT NOW WE HAVE THE
COMMENT FROM THE APPLICANT SO
SO THOSE ARE NOW IN ALIGNMENT
WHICH IS GOOD MARIJANA OR MISS
THATCHER.
CAN WE JUST HAVE A BRIEF
EXPLANATION AS TO I KNOW WHY
EXTERNALLY LIT IS PREFER WHY IS
EDGERLY IS IT HAS IT JUST HAS
THE SINE THE SINE STANDARD IS
NOT CAUGHT UP WITH KIND OF SIGN
TECHNOLOGY OR IS THERE A REASON
WHY WE DON'T LIKE AGILITY TO
GET THE QUESTION?
I THINK SO.
SO IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AN
OPAQUE FRONT YES.
>> AND TRANSPARENT OR
TRANSLUCENT EDGE.
YEAH.
THAT HAS ONLY BEEN APPROVED
ONCE RIGHT IN THE STAR DISTRICT
AND IT'S ONLY BEEN PROPOSED
ONCE THAT WAS DETERMINED TO BE
OK FOR THAT APPLICATION.
YEAH.
SO REALLY AS IT'S SHOWN WITH AN
OPAQUE FRONT AND TRANSPARENT
SIDES I A STAFF WOULD SAY THAT
THAT'S PROBABLY OK OK IT'S
SIMILAR TO I CAN'T THINK OF IT
LIKE VAULT OF MIDNITE WHERE
THEY HAVE COMPLETELY OPAQUE
LETTERS WITH WITH LITTLE LIGHTS
THAT EDGE LIGHT AROUND THE
BACK.
>> YEAH.
LIKE BACKLISTS YEAH.
>> SO IT'S JUST IT'S JUST
INTERNAL INSTEAD OF BEHIND IT
RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
OK I APPRECIATE THAT.
OOPS SORRY I APOLOGIZE I I'M
JUST CURIOUS WAS A STARBUCKS
PSINET INTERNALLY LIT OR WHAT
WAS RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW AND I WOULDN'T
WORRY ABOUT IT BECAUSE IT HAD
BEEN THERE FOR A LONG TIME AND
I'M PRETTY SURE IT PREDATED OUR
DESIGN GUIDELINE.
IT WAS TWO THOUSAND FOUR 2004
THAT STARBUCKS WAS INSTALLED.
>> YES IT WAS INTERNALLY LIT,
INTERNALLY LIT BUT EACH LETTER
WAS CUT OUT.
YEAH THAT WAS SO IT WAS AND IT
WAS AS A LETTER IT WASN'T A
PLASTIC SIGN WITH A WITH A YOU
KNOW NO EXTERNAL CHANNEL LETTER
SIGN.
>> YEAH YEAH VERY GOOD.
OK SO IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION HERE?
I THINK I THINK YEAH GOOD THAT
DEFINITELY THE REMOVAL OF THAT
CANVAS AWNING AND REVEALING
MORE OF THE BRICK I THINK THAT
THIS IS A DEFINITE IMPROVEMENT
AND I THINK THE SIGNAGE IS FINE
KIND OF HAVING THAT LIT EFFECT.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD APPLICATION
AND NEEDS STANDARDS AND
DEFINITELY AN IMPROVEMENT ON
WHAT'S THERE.
THAT WAS MY ONLY COME INTO
EXPOSING MORE MORE BRICK.
IT WAS A GOOD IMPROVEMENT FOR
SURE.
>> GREAT SUMMARY BOTH OF YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I THINK THAT WE'VE HEARD ENOUGH
SO LET'S MOVE TO A VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO.
>> YOUR APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH, OK.
WE WILL MOVE ON THEN.
THIS IS OUR LAST HEARING.
IT'S HEARING F THREE FOUR OH
SEVEN SEVENTH STREET THE STAFF
REPORT PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
THIS TWO STOREY HOUSE WITH ITS
SWOOPING TRIM STEEPLY PITCHED
FRONT ENTRY ROOF WITH A HALF
ROUND PANEL OVER THE FRONT DOOR
AND CENTER CHIMNEY ON THE FRONT
ELEVATION IS REMINISCENT OF THE
STORYBOOK STYLE IT FIRST
APPEARED IN CITY DIRECTORIES IN
1930 AS THE HOME OF ARNAUD'S
BUSH A SALESMAN AT KYC MOTOR
SALES.
THE HOUSE DOES NOT APPEAR ON
1920 SANBORN FIRE INSURANCE
MAPS IT'S LOCATED ON THE EAST
SIDE OF SOUTH SEVENTH STREET
SOUTH OF WEST LIBERTY.
IT'S AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF KAEPPELER COURT WHICH IS A
PRIVATE DRIVEWAY SERVING
SEVERAL PROPERTIES AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO BUILD A TWO STOREY
REAR ADDITION WITH A CARPORT.
>> OK, HERE'S THE HOUSE TODAY
WITH ITS CHARMING STORYBOOK
STYLE.
I JUST LOVE THAT AS A AS A WAY
TO DESCRIBE HOUSES.
>> THIS IS KEPLER CAUGHT THIS
GRAVEL DRIVEWAY AND YOU'LL SEE
IN A MINUTE THAT THAT MR. LONG
WHO OWNS THE HOUSE ALSO OWNS
MOST OF THIS DRIVEWAY.
IT'S PART OF THE LOT BUT IT IS
USED TO ACCESS TWO OR THREE
HOUSES DOWN BEYOND HIS AND ALSO
TO GO AROUND TO A GROUP
OF CONDOMINIUMS THAT ARE OFF TO
THE RIGHT THAT YOU CAN'T SEE
HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE THIS
IS THE SIDE YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE THE THE SECOND FLOOR IN THE
BACK IS IS INSET A LITTLE BIT
AND IT HAS THIS THIS LITTLE
ROOF OVER THE FIRST FLOOR
WINDOWS.
WE'VE GOT A PAIR OF QAID
DORMERS.
SO REALLY THIS IS YOU KNOW,
TRIM APPLIED BUT IT DOES HAVE A
LITTLE PEAK HERE SO THEY HARD
TO SAY WHETHER THEY'RE REALLY
SHUD DORMERS OR NOT BUT THAT'S
THE APPEARANCE THEY GIVE.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S A PATIO HERE RIGHT NOW
AND A COUPLE OF PARKING SPACES
AND THEN OFF TO THE RIGHT IN
THIS PHOTO IS A SMALL FENCED IN
LAWN AND YARD AND YOU CAN SEE
THERE'S A LITTLE SHED OR TWO
AND THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE BETWEEN THIS AND
THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
>> OK, EXISTING HOUSE HAS A
PROPOSED ADDITION ON THE BACK
THAT'S INSET TEN INCHES FROM
THE NORTHEAST CORNER AND
ACTUALLY POPS OUT THREE FEET
FROM THE SOUTHEAST CORNER.
BUT IT'S NOT AS DEEP AS THIS
WALL CURRENTLY IS THE
SOUTHERNMOST PART OF THIS
ELEVATION.
WE CAN KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR THIS
DIMENSION BUT I THINK IT'S
PROBABLY CLOSER TO FIVE FEET
BEHIND THE EDITION WOULD BE A
CARPORT.
>> IT'S TWENTY FOUR AND A HALF
FEET DEEP AND TWELVE FEET WIDE
AND IT'S IT WOULD BE TIGHT FOR
A CAR BUT THEY KNOW IT AND IT'S
BEEN DESIGNED THIS WAY ON
PURPOSE AND THERE ARE SOME
STAIRS TO GET IN A NEW BACK
DOOR ON THE ADDITION BECAUSE
THESE ARE EXISTING FIRST FLOOR
PLAN AND AREAS OF DEMO SECOND
FLOOR PLAN.
WE'VE GOT THREE BEDROOMS AND A
BATHROOM.
THE EXISTING FRONT ELEVATION
EXISTING S ELEVATION ON THE
SIDE EXISTING REAR ELEVATION
WHERE ALL THE CHANGES TAKE
PLACE YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE
ARE ONLY THREE WINDOWS AND I'M
GUESSING THAT THIS IS PROBABLY
A NON ORIGINAL KITCHEN WINDOW
THAT'S ALREADY BEEN SHORTENED
AT SOME POINT THOUGH BY 1930
THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN MAKING
ABOVE COUNTER HEIGHT WINDOWS.
IT'S HARD TO SAY AND AND THIS
IS THE NORTH SIDE NEXT TO THE
NEIGHBORS.
>> SO REALLY NOT MUCH GOING ON
HERE ON THE BACK OF THIS THIS
HOUSE RIGHT NOW THE PROPOSED
ADDITION HAS A NEW KITCHEN AND
A BEDROOM AND A DOOR LEADING
OUT TO THE NEW CARPORT.
>> YOU CAN SEE THAT OH YEAH.
I WAS CLOSE FOUR FEET ELEVEN
AND A QUARTER HERE AND THREE
FEET WITH THE NEW ONE.
IT IS FLUSH WITH THE CORNER
OF THE HOUSE HERE.
WE'LL SEE HOW THAT PLAYS OUT IN
ELEVATIONS IN JUST A MINUTE.
>> AND THE SECOND FLOOR IS A
NEW BEDROOM AND BATH.
SO THIS IS THE PROPOSED FRONT
THE WINDOW MEASUREMENTS ARE ON
HERE FOR COMPARISON TO THE NEW
WINDOWS AND I ALSO HAVE SOME
OTHER INFORMATION ON A
MATERIALS LIST AND THE PROPOSAL
WINDOW SIZES ARE ALSO ON HERE
AS YOU CAN SEE THERE THEY ARE
VARIED.
THIS ONE IS IN A PAIR AND IT'S
A LITTLE BIT TALLER.
IT'S ABOUT SIX INCHES TALLER
THAN THIS BIG WINDOW ON THE
FRONT.
SO THEY MADE SOME EFFORTS TO
DISTINGUISH THESE WINDOWS FROM
THE WINDOWS ON THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
IT WOULD BE CLAD THE ADDITION
IN HARDBOARD CLAPBOARD AND THIS
IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE WE'VE
GOT IT'LL BE IT'LL BE STACKED
UP GABLES IN THE BACK HERE.
THIS IS THE EXISTING ONE ON THE
TOP AND THEN WE'VE GOT A NEW
GABLE HERE WITH NEW SHEDS
COMING OFF OF THE SIDES AND NEW
ATTIC WINDOW A COUPLE
OF WINDOWS ON THE BACK AND
THERE'S THAT PERSON DOOR THAT I
MENTIONED AND ONE OTHER WINDOW
ON THE FIRST FLOOR
ON THE NORTH
SIDE A COUPLE OF SMALL WINDOWS
ON THE FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR
THIS THE CARPORT HAS PAINTED
ONE BY TEN TRIM AND THE CARPETS
THE INTENTION WAS TO ALSO SERVE
AS A PATIO IS MORE OUTDOOR
SPACE.
IF YOU DON'T WANT TO PUT A CAR
IN IT YOU CAN USE IT FOR
HANGING OUT IN OR WHATEVER YOU
WANT TO DO THERE.
THERE IS EXISTING AND PROPOSED
TRIM DETAIL THE EXISTING SORRY
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT FUZZY IT
DIDN'T COPY VERY WELL BUT THE
EXISTING TRIM IS IS NARROWER
THAN THE PROPOSED PROPOSES
THREE AND A HALF INCHES ALL
AROUND WHICH I THINK IS GOOD
BECAUSE THE EXISTING TRIM IS A
LITTLE BIT VARIED.
>> YOU SEE THAT THESE WINDOWS
HAVE MORE TRADITIONAL SILLS AND
IT'S PROBABLY A DRIP CAP UP
HERE.
SO I DO THINK THAT THIS
PROPOSED SIDING BEING WIDER IS
BOTH COMPATIBLE AND YOU KNOW,
CLOSE ENOUGH TO NOT MAKE IT
LOOK TOO FUNKY.
>> THERE ARE A COUPLE OF CROSS
SECTIONS IN THE PACKET
FOR THE
ARCHITECTS AMONG US.
TAKES ME A WHILE TO WRAP MY
HEAD AROUND SECTIONS THEY ARE
MATCHING THE FLOOR HEIGHT WITH
THE EXISTING LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE
PUTTING A NEW BASEMENT ROOM
UNDERNEATH AND MORE SECTIONS
ABOUT THE ROOF CONSTRUCTION AND
THE THE OR FLOORS ARE COMING
TOGETHER AND RENDERING OF WHAT
THIS WHOLE THING PUT TOGETHER
WOULD LOOK LIKE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE EVE HERE
IS HAS BEEN KEPT SIMPLE AND IS
LOWER THAN THE EVE ON THE BACK
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING AND
THE THE CARPORT PERGOLA BACK
HERE.
I DID WANT TO POINT OUT
SOMETHING ABOUT THE PERGOLA
THAT I MISSED AND THAT IS THAT
IT HAS A SOLID WALL ON THE BACK
.
WHERE DOES THAT GO?
I'M NOT SURE WHERE I SAW THAT
BUT THERE IS THIS IS A WALL
RIGHT HERE, YOU KNOW, MORE LIKE
A FENCE BUT IT'S SOLID SO YOU
YOU CAN'T WHEN YOU GO INTO THE
CARPORT YOU CAN'T SEE THROUGH
TO THE NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY.
>> DOES IT HAVE A SOLID ROOF?
IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I WILL ASK THE APPLICANT ABOUT
THAT UNLESS I SEE IT SOMEWHERE
BEFORE THEN.
OK, HERE YOU CAN SEE THE WALL
PRETTY WELL THERE OR FENCE OR
YOU KNOW OR
SO THE WHOLE THING
IS A LITTLE BIT TUCKED IN ON
THE BACK HERE
AND SECRETARY
INTERIOR STANDARD ONE I HAVEN'T
READ YOU YET SAYS A PROPERTY
WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE TO ITS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS FEATURE TO FACE
RELATIONSHIPS I HAVE READ
NUMBER NINE AND NUMBER TEN FROM
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES TRADITIONS.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A
NEW EDITION SO THAT THERE'S THE
LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS OF HISTORIC
MATERIALS THAT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE NOT
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
CONSIDER THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
ADDITIONS BOTH IN TERMS OF THE
NEW USE AND THE APPEARANCE
OF OTHER BUILDINGS IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
DESIGN MAY BE CONTEMPORARY OR
REFERENCE DESIGN MOTIFS FROM
HISTORIC BUILDING SHOULD LOCATE
THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR EDITION
AT THE REAR OR ON AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING LIMITED THE
SIZE AND SCALE AND ALSO DESIGN
NEW ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW NOT RECOMMENDED
ATTACHING A NEW EDITION SET THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
AND DESIGNING A NEW ADDITIONS
THAT ITS SIZE AND SCALE ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION, THUS DIMINISHING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER NOT
RECOMMENDED AS REMOVING A
RADICALLY CHANGING BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES OR SITE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER
IS DIMINISHED FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE A NEW EDITION ON A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING OR
INCONSPICUOUS ELEVATION
LIMITING THE SIZE AND SCALE
ALSO TO PLACE NEW WALLS IN A
DIFFERENT PLANE FROM THE
HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC THAT IS
HAPPENING ON ONE SIDE OF THIS
THIS HOUSE ONE REAR CORNER THE
OTHER CORNER IS POPPED OUT.
SO THE COMMISSION WILL PROBABLY
WANT TO TALK ABOUT THAT A
LITTLE BIT.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT'S HISTORIC AND
WHAT'S NEW AND TO LIMIT THE
SIZE AND SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS
.
THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD
EXCEED NEITHER HALF OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT
NOR HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDINGS TOTAL FLOOR AREA.
RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO SWITCH OVER TO A
MATERIALS LIST HERE.
I'M GOING TO START MY SHARE AND
GO BACK IN ONE MOMENT PLEASE
.
>> OK, SO MATERIALS THIS IS
PART OF THE APPLICATION PACKET
THE THE ROOF ASPHALT
DIMENSIONAL SHINGLES THE CITING
IS PAINTED HARDWARE SIDING
WITH
CLEAR PINEWOOD TRIM AND
ANDERSON WOOD CLAD DOUBLE HUNG
WINDOWS ON THE ADDITION OF THE
EXISTING WINDOW SIZES ARE
LISTED HERE AND THE PROPOSED
ARE ON THE DRAWINGS I WANTED TO
GET DOWN TO HERE THE FOOTPRINT
CALIX I TOOK A COUPLE OF NOTES
HAVE NOW LOST THEIR DOING THE
MATH HERE.
YES, THE FLOOR ERROR ABOUT THE
TOTAL NEW FLOOR AREA IS FORTY
SIX PERCENT OF THE EXISTING
FLOOR AREA.
I DID THE FOOTPRINT REALLY
QUICKLY.
>> IT IS FORTY PERCENT OF THE
EXISTING FOOTPRINT SO THEY'RE
GOOD ON BOTH OF THOSE COUNTS
AND THE EXISTING ASBESTOS
SHINGLES ARE 10 INCH AVERAGE
EXPOSURE THAN THEY ARE WAVY ON
THE BOTTOM WHICH LOOKS PRETTY
COOL.
AND THE PROPOSED JAMES HARDIE
PLANK SIDING IS A SEVEN INCH
EXPOSURE.
SO LET'S SEE
.
LET'S SEE.
WE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT THE
WINDOW PROPORTIONS.
THE CURRENT CLADDING IS
ASBESTOS SHINGLES
STAFF
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL THE
ADDITION AND CARPORT AND
BELIEVES THE WORK MEETS THE
SECRETARY INTERIOR STANDARDS
AND ALL OF THE OTHER STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> COMMISSIONER FORTNER, DO YOU
WANT TO GIVE US YOUR REPORT?
>> YEAH, I DON'T KNOW THAT I
HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD I
GUESS I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS
REALLY SEMANTIC BUT WELL, IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S ON THE CORNER
THE SIDE STREET IS NOT PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY.
>> RIGHT.
IT'S THIS PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
IT'S LIKE A VERY WIDE DRIVEWAY
JUST LIKE IF IT WAS A HOUSE
WITH A WIDE DRIVEWAY THAT YEAH.
ANYTHING ELSE OK?
>> YEAH I AGREE.
IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT TECHNICALLY
A CORNER BUT YOU MIGHT AS WELL
THINK OF IT AS A CORNER HOUSE
BECAUSE OF THE FACT THAT YOU
CAN WELL IT'S NOT QUITE AS BAD
AS A CORNER BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
SEE THE BACK IT'S JUST A HOUSE
WITH A VERY WIDE DRIVEWAY.
>> IT REALLY THERE IS A
DIFFERENCE YOU REALLY WILL
NEVER SEE THE BACK THAT E
ELEVATION FROM FROM THE
SIDEWALK THE OTHER OK AND JUST
SPEAKING OF THAT THAT E
ELEVATION THERE IS ANOTHER
HOUSE THERE.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT KIND OF FELT
LIKE SO THAT THEIR SIDE OF THE
HOUSE IS FURTHER OUT LIKE THE
SETBACK OF THE OF THAT NEXT
HOUSE DOWN THE STREET FACES
KAPPLER THEIR HOUSE FACES
SEVEN.
SO THIS SIDE OF THEIR HOUSE IS
LIKE FURTHER OUT TOWARDS
KAPPLER STREET THAN THE SETBACK
OF THEIR NEIGHBORS, THEIR BACK
NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE.
AND THERE COULD BE AN ISSUE
WHERE LIKE IF IF THE YOU KNOW,
IF THEY WENT SO FAR INTO THEIR
BACK YARD IT WOULD KIND OF BE
ENCROACHING THAT HOUSE.
BUT THAT IS NOT THE CASE IN MY
OPINION.
I I'M SURE ZONING WOULDN'T
ALLOW YOU ACTUALLY TO BUILD IN
THAT REAR YARD ANYWAY AND AND
BESIDES THAT WHERE IT'S
PROPOSED WITH THE CARPORT
THERE'S STILL GOING TO BE SOME
BACKYARD SO THAT THAT FELT GOOD
WHILE WE WERE STANDING THERE.
>> I WILL JUST SAY ON THE ON
THE THE RENDERINGS WELL I'LL
SAVE THAT FOR A DISCUSSION.
>> LET ME THINK IF THERE'S
ANYTHING ELSE FOR THE SITE.
>> NO.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO APPLICANT COMMENTS.
>> SO WOULD THE APPLICANT
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM,
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD?
THANK YOU.
AND YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO
COMMENT SO THANKS FOR YOUR
ALONG ON THE HOUSE AT FOUR ZERO
SEVEN SEVEN THREE MOST OF WHAT
I HAVE TO SAY HAS ALREADY BEEN
COVERED .
THERE'S JUST A FEW THINGS THAT
I'D LIKE TO TO MENTION.
THE HOUSE IS BUILT SOMETIME
AROUND NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE.
WE HAVE SEEN SOME OF THE OLD
SANDBORN MAPS AND YOU CAN SEE
WHERE THERE IS USED TO BE A
EITHER A CONCRETE GLASS BACK
PORCH OR A GARAGE ON THAT PLACE
AND THAT'S ABOVE AN EXISTING
CISTERN THAT KIND OF SHARES THE
BACK WALL WITH MY HOUSE AND IT
CAUSES PROBLEMS WITH THE
FOUNDATION.
SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE REASONS
WHY WE'RE DOING THIS IS BECAUSE
WE HAVE TO ADDRESS THAT SYSTEM
ANYWAYS TO GET TO TO REMOVE AS
WE'RE DOING THAT JUST MAKES
SENSE TO BUILD.
WE ALSO HAVE ONE BATHROOM IN
THE HOUSE ON THE SECOND THE
SECOND STORY IS SO THAT'S THE
OTHER REALLY PRECIPITATING
FACTOR WE JUST WE'VE GOT A
FAMILY OF FOUR NOW AND WE JUST
WANT TO HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE
CONVENIENCE.
YOU MENTIONED THAT THE HOUSE
BEHIND US YOU KNOW WE'VE GOT A
SMALL BACKYARD TRYING TO MAKE
ACCOMMODATIONS SO THAT WE DON'T
ENCROACH TOO FAR TOO FAR.
THE WHAT IS WE'RE CALLING IT
CARPORT AS AS MISS THATCHER HAS
HAS MENTIONED IT'S REALLY IT'S
I MEAN IT WILL PROBABLY FIT A
CAR IN THERE BUT IT'S REALLY
MORE FOR AN OUTDOOR SPACE.
IT WILL BE COVERED WHICH WAS A
QUESTION SO THAT WE COULD HAVE
SOME SPACE FOR LIKE A BARBECUE
IN INCLEMENT WEATHER OR THE
KIDS WANT TO GET OUT THERE
PROBABLY FOUR TO PUT OUR BIKES
OUT THERE WITHOUT GETTING
RAINED ON.
BUT WE DIDN'T WANT TO DO A
GARAGE BECAUSE WE DIDN'T WANT
TO REALLY TAKE UP TOO MUCH
SPACE.
BUT OUR NEIGHBORS SO WE WANT TO
KIND OF KEEP IT MORE OPEN.
>> SO THAT'S WHY WE DID WHAT WE
DID.
I THINK THAT'S ALL.
OH, THE ONLY OTHER THING I WANT
TO MENTION IS THERE IS AN
EXISTING ATTIC WINDOW WHICH I
THINK ON THE ELEVATION DOESN'T
SHOW BUT THERE'S AN EXISTING
ATTIC WINDOW THAT'S DONE THAT
WOULD NOT ACTUALLY HONESTLY
I'VE TALKED TO THE ARCHITECT
ABOUT IT.
WE'D LOVE TO KEEP IT.
>> IT WOULD JUST BE ON THE
INSIDE.
>> THANK YOU, JOSH, ARE THERE
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
YEAH.
SO WHAT'S THE MATERIALITY
OF THE WALL THAT'S GOING TO BE
ADDED TO THAT CARDBOARD TO THE
CARDBOARD?
IT I MEAN ON THE OUTSIDE YOU
KNOW, IT'S FUNNY I HAVEN'T
ACTUALLY GIVEN IT MUCH THOUGHT.
I MEAN IT WAS PROBABLY BE JUST
WOOD.
WE COULD WE COULD DO THE PARTY,
YOU KNOW, MATCH IT TO THE REST
OF THE HOUSE.
BUT IF YOU YOU SEE ON THE NORTH
OF THE HOUSE IT'S REALLY CLOSE
TO OUR NEIGHBOR WHICH IS A
RENTAL HOUSE AND IT'S ALSO
ELEVATED.
SO WE HAVE THERE'S A IT'S ABOUT
A FOUR FOOT TALL RETAINING WALL
AND THEY LIKE TO PARK THEIR
CARS RIGHT CLOSE TO WHERE THAT
WALL WOULD BE.
SO WE JUST WANTED TO PUT A
LITTLE BIT OF A BARRIER SEE.
>> YEAH, EXACTLY.
I THINK I'LL JUST JUMP ON YOUR
QUESTION, COMMISSIONER ROSS,
BECAUSE I HAD A WHOLE SERIES
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT THE CAR.
YEAH, THERE'S THERE'S ALMOST NO
MATERIAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE
CARPORT SO IT'S HARD FOR US TO
TO KIND OF WEIGH IN ON IT AND
KNOW IF IT'S COMPATIBLE OR NOT
AND APPROPRIATE OR NOT WITHOUT
KNOWING THE MATERIALS.
YEAH.
SO I JUST I WAS CERTAINLY
CURIOUS WHAT THAT WHAT THE
MATERIAL OF THE WALL WAS BUT
ALSO IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S
MAYBE THEY LOOK LIKE CONCRETE
PILLARS.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN THERE'S THERE'S A ROOF
WOOD CLOUD OVER THE CONCRETE
WILL YOU SEE THE CONCRETE OR
THE THE WOOD IT WOULD BE WOOD
GOT IT.
OK SO IT MIGHT BE MENTIONED IN
THERE AT THAT WAS MENTIONED I
WASN'T SURE IF THAT WAS JUST
THE POST PART OF THE ACTUAL
PIER AS WELL.
YEAH.
SEE OF WOOD COMING ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO GRADE OK AND THEN YEAH
IT COULD WE IT LOOKS YEAH IT'S
JUST MAYBE PAINT YEAH YEAH IT
LOOKS LIKE IT COULD BE PAINTED
DIFFERENT TWO DIFFERENT COLORS
OR SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS VERY
HELPFUL IN TERMS
OF UNDERSTANDING THE FEEL OF IT
BUT ALSO WE NEED TO KNOW WHAT
WHAT ALL THOSE MATERIALS ARE SO
IS IF YOU COULD JUST SAY
EVERYTHING'S GOING TO BE WOOD
TRIM AND THEN THAT'S YEAH.
>> SOMETHING THAT'S REALLY WHAT
THE PLAN WAS WITH THE EXCEPTION
THAT LIKE YOU KNOW WE'VE GOT
THE DIMENSIONAL ASPHALTING
ANGLES TO GO ON THE TOP OF THE
ROOF OF THE HOUSE.
>> I WOULD IMAGINE YOU CAN'T
PUT THOSE ON THE FLAT ROOFS
WOULD PROBABLY BE A MEMBRANE OR
YEAH.
>> MEMBRANE ROOF AND WOOD TRIM
FOR EVERYTHING THAT WE SEE
THERE ON THE CARPORT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANT?
>> OH YEAH.
WHAT ABOUT THE THE OTHER THING
THAT'S NOT CALLED OUT AT ALL
AND I DON'T THINK YOU'LL BE
ABLE TO BUILD IT QUITE LIKE
THAT IS THE STAIR SO WHAT AGAIN
IS THAT ALL GOING TO BE WOOD
TRIM OR IT WOULD BE WOOD TRIM
YOU'LL NEED A GARDEN WALL AND
YEAH I WOULD IMAGINE BE YOU'LL
NEED OTHER OTHER PARTS FOR THAT
I THINK YEAH.
RACHLIN IS A STEP EIGHT INCHES
OR WHAT'S THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
OF A STEP QUARTER OR THEY'LL
STILL BE THEY'LL STILL BE BELOW
30 INCHES.
>> YEAH SO THAT'S YEAH.
>> YOU YOUR SHOULD BE ABLE TO
RUN RIGHT OFF THE JOB SO YEAH I
MEAN THAT'S JUST YOU LEAVE IT
HOW IT IS WASH EACH OTHER.
YEAH VERY GOOD.
OK AND ANYWAY JOSH I APPRECIATE
YOUR EXPLANATION OF THE USE
OF THE CARPORT BECAUSE CARPORT
DOES KIND OF MEAN A THING AND
YOU KNOW THE STAIRS IS GOING TO
BE AT LEAST THREE FEET WIDE.
YOU'VE GOT A 12 FOOT WIDE WIDTH
PLUS
IT LOOKS LIKE AT LEAST A
FOOT PIER THERE.
SO THAT'S EIGHT FEET LEFT FOR A
CAR.
>> YEAH, IT'S VERY, VERY NARROW
FOR A CAR.
YEAH.
SO AS LONG AS YOU'RE AWARE AND
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU'VE GOT
MULTIPLE USES FOR IT SO VERY
GOOD.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
>> OK WE MIGHT NEED YOU AGAIN
BUT FOR NOW WE'VE GOT TO GO
THROUGH ALL THE OTHER THINGS.
THANK YOU.
SO WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS APPLICATION AT
407 SOUTH SEVEN STREET AND WE
DON'T HAVE ANYONE HERE AND HAS
ANYONE JOINED US TO TALK ABOUT
FOUR OR SEVEN?
>> THEY HAVE NOT.
THERE'S NOW A LINE OF NEIGHBORS
HASN'T ASSEMBLED.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THEN WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND WE'LL ASK IF
ANY COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION.
THANK YOU.
I MOVE THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT 407 S
SEVENTH STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A TWO STORY REAR EDITION WITH A
CARPORT.
THE WORK AS PROPOSED IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
AND BUILDING SITE IN THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS SECOND
OK WHAT I HEARD WAS MOVED BY IT
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
NOW WE'LL MOVE FORWARD WITH A
DISCUSSION AND I THINK IT'D BE
HELPFUL TO LOOK AT THE
RENDERING PAGE BECAUSE THAT'S
VERY DESCRIPTIVE.
YOU CAN KIND OF GO THROUGH
PIECE BY PIECE HERE BUT MAYBE
THE MAYBE THE FIRST THING WE
SHOULD TALK ABOUT IS JUST
SIMPLY THE THE MACING LIKE THE
OVERALL MACING AND DESIGN
OF THE ADDITIONS LIKE THAT'S
KIND OF THE VIEW FROM THE
SIDEWALK RIGHT THERE.
SO THAT'S PROBABLY LIKE THE
MOST APPROPRIATE KIND OF VIEW
TO DISCUSS AND JUST ONE IF
THERE'S ANY COMMENTS ON YOU
KNOW, IF THIS WAS LIKE A
CLASSIC REORIENTATED ITION YOU
BUMP IN FROM FROM BOTH SIDES
SOME AMOUNT TO TO SHOW THAT
YOU'RE KIND OF SUBORDINATING
THE EDITION.
THAT'S WHAT THE THE STANDARD
SAY.
I THINK IN THIS CASE YOU DO
HAVE ON THE NORTH SIDE AND THEN
WHAT WE'RE UNFORTUNATELY YOU
SEE THIS SIDE BUT WHAT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IS THAT THEY ARE
TRYING TO KEEP THE ADDITION AS
I GUESS NARROW OR AS LESS DEEP
AS POSSIBLE.
THEY PROBABLY COULD HAVE FIT
EVERYTHING THEY WANTED BUT THEY
WOULD BE THEN LOSING THEIR
BACKYARD, GETTING CLOSER TO THE
NEIGHBORS.
SO IT SEEMS TO ME TO FIT THE
BEDROOM, THE KITCHEN THEY THEY
BUMPED OUT AND THEN CHOSE TO
SUBORDINATE SUBORDINATED WITH
THE LIKE THE LOWER ROOFLINE AND
AND WHILE KEEPING IT NOT QUITE
AS FAR IT'S THE THREE FEET BUMP
OUT VERSUS THE FIVE FEET.
I THINK WHEN I ORIGINALLY SAW
IT I WAS TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
LIKE WELL WHY DIDN'T THEY DO
WHAT THE STANDARDS SAY?
AND I THINK THIS IS A CASE
OF KIND OF A COMPROMISE BETWEEN
THE STANDARDS THAT SAY YOU NEED
TO HAVE IT SUBORDINATED AND THE
STANDARDS THAT SAY LIKE YOU
NEED TO FIT IN WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BY NOT BEING
CLOSER TO CLOSE TO YOUR
NEIGHBOR OR SOMETHING.
BUT IT IS NOT I WOULD SAY A
KIND OF CLASSICALLY FOLLOWING
THE STANDARDS.
>> SO I'M WONDERING IF IF
THERE'S DISCUSSION ABOUT AGREE
IT DOESN'T FEEL SUBORDINATE BUT
DOESN'T FEEL DOMINATING EITHER
.
IT'S DEFINITELY A LARGE MASS
BUT I THINK THAT LARGER WINDOWS
DEFINITELY BREAKING THAT UP
MORE.
THERE'S NOT A LOT OF OPEN SPACE
.
THAT WAS MY FIRST THOUGHT WHEN
I WAS WELL OBVIOUSLY THESE
LARGE EXPANSIONS THE END THE
BUILDINGS I KIND OF WORRIED
THAT YOU'LL HAVE A TON OF FACE
SHOWING WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY
FACE?
A LOT OF LIKE A LOT OF SOLID
TRIM RIGHT?
I MEAN I I FEEL LIKE THIS IS
THE TREND THAT EDITIONS ARE
KIND OF GETTING LESS AND LESS
DESIGNERS ARE BECOMING LESS AND
LESS MINDFUL OF THAT AND
ACTUALLY REQUIREMENT TO REALLY
STEP BACK THESE NEW ADDITIONS
FROM THE HISTORIC HOUSE AND I
THINK THIS IS WELL I'M NOT
SAYING EVERY THING SOMETHING
UNIQUE BUT THIS IS PARTICULARLY
PROBLEMATIC BECAUSE OF THE
DESCRIBED WAY AND THE FACT THAT
THERE'S NOT YOU KNOW, THE HOUSE
CLOSE UP NEXT DOOR TO CONCEAL
THAT RIGHT.
SO I MEAN I'M I'M PROBABLY
GOING TO VOTE AGAINST IT FOR
THAT REASON JUST BECAUSE I MEAN
ON THE OTHER SIDE IT'S TEN
INCHES TO ME THAT'S JUST KIND
OF A THROW AWAY.
SO IT JUST IT JUST SEEMS TO BE
THE TREND NOW TO JUST KEEP KIND
PUSHING THAT ENVELOPE A LITTLE
BIT.
AND I MEAN THIS IS NOT EVEN
PUSHING THE ENVELOPE.
THIS IS NOT CONFORMING TO OUR
GUIDELINES SO.
RIGHT.
THAT'S WELL DESIGN PROOF.
SURE.
THE ROOF COMES DOWN SO IT'S YOU
KNOW, IT'S IT'S JUST YEAH BUT
IT IS MISSING IN THE MOST
IMPORTANT AREA.
IT UNFORTUNATELY IS IS NOT
CONFORMING BUT IT'S WELL
DESIGNED FOR SURE.
I MEAN I UNDERSTAND THE
REASONING BEHIND IT RIGHT.
THE DESIGN OR THE DESIGNERS
KIND OF GOAL TO MEET WHAT THE
YOUNGER ONES BUT IT'S LET ME
SAY SOMETHING ELSE THAT I DON'T
THINK IT IT IT'S SORT IT'S SORT
OF WITHIN THIS DISCUSSION
BECAUSE WE'RE LOOKING AT THIS
RENDERING THIS RENDERING IS
REALLY NOT DOING IT'S A
BEAUTIFUL RENDERING.
IT'S VERY DESCRIPTIVE AND IT'S
VERY CLEAR.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THERE'S A
MAJOR PIECE MISSING FROM IT.
>> THE CONTEXT, THE CONTEXT I
THINK THE THE THERE'S AT LEAST
ONE MAJOR PIECE MISSING FROM
IT.
THANK YOU.
IT'S THE FACT THAT THE ORIGINAL
HOUSE HAS THIS 10 INCH WAVY
ASBESTOS SIDING AND THE NEW
ADDITION IS GOING TO HAVE I
THINK WHAT'S SHOWN HERE WHICH
EIGHT INCH EXPOSURE?
THIRTY SEVEN YEAH.
EXACTLY SEVEN INCH EXPOSURE
HARDIE AND SO RIGHT NOW IT
LOOKS LIKE THIS LIKE COHESIVE
IT'S LIKE ALWAYS WAS THAT WAY.
>> YEAH IT LOOKS LIKE THIS IS
HOW IT ALWAYS WAS DESIGNED TO
MAKE IT BLEND.
>> YEAH YEAH.
BUT I THINK WHEN WHEN THE
ADDITIONS WILL BE BUILT WITH
THAT DIFFERENCE IN THE SIDING
AND ALSO THE WINDOWS HERE THE
TRIM THEY'VE MADE IT ALL HOW I
THINK THE ADDITION IS GOING TO
BE WITH THE CONTINUOUS THREE
AND A HALF INCH TRIM ALL THE
WAY AROUND AND ON THE EXISTING
HOUSE YOU'VE GOT NARROWER TRIM.
YEAH AND YEAH SO SO THERE IS
MORE DIFFERENTIATE THERE'S MUCH
MORE DIFFERENTIATION THAN WHAT
IS SHOWN IN THAT RENDERING THAT
DOESN'T MAKE THAT DOESN'T
CHANGE THE BUMP OUT RIGHT.
DOESN'T MAKE IT YEAH IT YEAH I
THINK IT WOULD HELP YEAH.
PICTURE A LOT IN MY EYES AND I
THINK THE CONTEXT IT'S NOT
SITTING IT WOULD BE NICE TO
HAVE AS WELL.
THE OTHER PHOTO WAS LIKE THE
CITY ANN ARBOR WAS BEHIND IT
RIGHT WHEREWITH YEAH I FEEL
LIKE I SAW ONE WHERE IT WAS
LIKE I CAN SEE THE DIAD OR YEAH
BUT YEAH IT'S ALWAYS KIND
OF YEAH I I ALWAYS FIND IT
INTERESTING IT'S JUST ME USING
YEAH IT'S IT'S LIKE I GET THE
DESIGNERS LIKE FOCUS I LOOK AT
THIS BEAUTIFUL HOUSE BUT THEN
ONCE IT'S PULLED OUT OF THE
CONTEXT WELL IT'S WHAT DOES THE
CONTEXT BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT
THE CONTEXT IS THAT IT'S JUST
YOU KNOW FORCES ME TO HONE IN
ON WHAT'S WRONG WITH IT.
MM HMM.
I MEAN NOT THAT I'M LOOKING FOR
WHAT'S WRONG WITH IT BUT WELL
YOU PROBABLY A LITTLE BIT YEAH.
BUT I DO APPRECIATE THOSE KIND
OF NODS THOSE LITTLE KIND
OF YOU KNOW, THE DIFFERENT
DIFFERENTIATION IN THE
PROPORTIONS OF THE WINDOW
OPENINGS THAT ANOTHER TRIM THE
SIGHTING, THE LITTLE KIND
OF STEP DOWN FOR SURE.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THIS
ON THE BUMP OUT HOW DO YOU GUYS
FEEL?
I THINK IT'S GIVEN THE SITE
RESTRICTION.
I THINK THAT THE THE OTHER
THINGS THAT THEY DO WITH THE
LOWER ROOFLINE AND THE IT'S NOT
AS FAR OUT AS THE FRONT THAT
THAT WAS A GOOD WAY TO DEAL
WITH THE SITE RESTRICTIONS THAT
THEY HAVE.
AND I'M I I THINK IT'S STILL
SUBORDINATE ENOUGH TO BE
SUBORDINATE EVEN THOUGH IT'S
COMING OUT FROM THAT BACK
SECTION.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
>> I THINK THAT WHAT I LEARNED
ABOUT THE WINDOW TRIM TODAY I
WAS I WAS PARTICULARLY HAPPY TO
HEAR BECAUSE I WAS HAVING A
HARD TIME ESPECIALLY WITH THE
RENDERINGS UNTIL I REALIZED
WHAT WAS HAPPENING
DIFFERENTIATING BETWEEN THE TWO
I THINK THE THERE'S NOT MUCH
DETAIL.
>> IT'S CLEARLY THE STORYBOOK
STYLE AND THAT VERY SMALL BIT
OF DETAIL IS BEING MIMICKED
QUITE HEAVILY ON THE EDITION.
>> AND I WAS IT WAS TROUBLING
ME THAT THERE WASN'T GOING TO
BE A WAY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT WAS
WHAT.
>> BUT I THINK WITH THE
BECAUSE
IT'S LIKE EITHER THAT AND THE
WINDOWS YOU KNOW, THAT'S LIKE
THE TWO THINGS YOU HAVE TO WORK
WITH ON THIS HOUSE JUST LIKE
MOST HOUSES IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE THERE'S JUST NOT MUCH
DETAIL EXCEPT THE MACING THE
WINDOWS.
SO I WAS HAPPY TO HEAR THAT THE
THAT CALLED OUT IN THE PROPOSAL
AND THAT'S MAKING ME FEEL LIKE
IT'S IT'S DIFFERENTIATED WITH
THE JUST ENOUGH IT'S LIKE RIGHT
UP TO THE LINE OF OF OF OF NOT
HAVING ENOUGH DIFFERENTIATION
BECAUSE TO ME THE COMPATIBILITY
IS LIKE TO THE MAX ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT THIS IS LIKE SO
COMPATIBLE BUT THEN YOU RUN THE
RISK OF NOT BEING ABLE TO SEE
AT A GLANCE WHAT'S THE ADDITION
AND WHAT'S THE ORIGINAL OK
OK
SO THEN LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
CARPORT.
I HAD A BUNCH OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE CARPORT BUT I, I
THINK THEY WERE WELL THEY WERE
ALL ANSWERED BUT I'M WONDERING
IF DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS ON THE CARPET BETTER
THAN A GARAGE.
YEAH OK ALL RIGHT OK.
ANY LAST COMMENTS DO YOU WANT
TO REITERATE I'D LIKE TO HEAR
YOUR STANCE SINCE IT DOES SOUND
LIKE IT'S HEADING TO DISAGREE
DIRECTION JUST JUST ONE MORE
TIME AND I GUESS IT'S JUST FOR
FUTURE SIMILAR PROPOSALS.
YEAH I MEAN YEAH JUST KIND
OF REITERATING THE FACT THAT
BECAUSE OF THIS KIND OF WIDE
DRIVEWAY AND THE ADDITIONAL
SPACE TO THE SIDE THIS IS GOING
TO BE VISIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AND JUST NOT DOING
THAT KIND OF NICE KIND
OF SEPARATION AND SUBORDINATION
THAT'S REALLY CLEAR AND THAT I
FEEL LIKE THIS IS PUSHING THE
ENVELOPE IN MY OPINION.
>> BUT IT'S A WELL DESIGN,
CERTAINLY A WELL DESIGNED
EDITION.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER ROSS.
OK, SO I THINK WE'VE KIND
OF HEARD WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
HEAR.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY OTHER
FINAL COMMENTS BEFORE WE WRAP
UP THE DISCUSSION?
OK, WE'VE HEARD FROM EVERYONE
SO THEN LET'S GO TO VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
NO MISS THATCHER THREE TO ONE
DO WE MOTION CARRY GREAT THE
MOTION CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION
HAS BEEN APPROVED SO YOU CAN
CONTINUE WITH THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH
OK THAT WAS OUR LAST
HEARING.
YOU TAKE A DRINK ALL RIGHT
LET'S MOVE ON.
>> WE ARE GOING TO ITEM G NEW
BUSINESS THERE IS NO NEW
BUSINESS ON TONIGHT'S AGENDA
AND THAT BRINGS US TO THE
APPROVAL OF MINUTES AND I
BELIEVE WE HAVE JULY AND AUGUST
TO APPROVE BECAUSE WE HAD JULYS
LAST MONTH BUT DID NOT VOTE ON
IT BECAUSE WE DIDN'T HAVE A
QUORUM.
SO WE'LL BE LOOKING AT BOTH
OF THOSE.
SO DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR CORRECTIONS ON THE
MINUTES FROM JULY OR AUGUST?
OK, SO WITHOUT OBJECTION THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED.
THANK YOU TO BRITNEY ALEXANDER
FOR PROVIDING THOSE MINUTES AND
THE AGENDA FOR THIS EVENING.
I ASSUME EVERYONE GETS THOSE IN
YOUR INBOX AND REVIEWS THEM
VERY GOOD.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE MOVING ON TO
THIS IS I REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONER AND I'M WONDERING
IF ANY COMMISSIONER HAS A
REPORT THIS MORNING TO SHARE
WITH US COBBLESTONE FARMS OR
ANYTHING NOW.
OK, WELL IN THAT CASE WE'LL
MOVE ON TO ASSIGNMENT'S THE
ASSIGNMENT IS FOR OCTOBER .
THAT'S THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10TH
AND I ASSUME WELL THAT THE THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WOULD BE FOR
MONDAY, OCTOBER SEVEN THEN I
JUST I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S A
FIVE P.M. OR A NOON.
IT WAS NOT ON THE AGENDA.
IT'S NOON STILL OR YEAH.
WE'RE MOVING TO NEW TRAVEN.
YEAH.
SO WE'VE MOVED ON TO THE NOON
REVIEW COMMITTEE SO EVERYONE
WHO LIKES THE NOON TIME CAN TO
RAISE THEIR HAND.
WHAT'S THAT OFFICIALLY CALL.
>> YEAH ONCE YOU MOVE TO THE
NEW REVIEW COMMITTEE BECAUSE
IT'S DARK AND SNOWING AT FIVE
O'CLOCK SO YEAH WE GOT TO MEET
AT NOON ON OCTOBER 7TH.
ANYONE YOU'RE NOT I'M NOT
NOON'S YOU'RE YOU'RE A FIVE PM
I CAN DO NOON.
YOU CAN DO NOON YEAH.
THANK YOU.
MAYBE STEVE OR CHIP WOULD BE
GAME I WILL ASK THEM OK BECAUSE
IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE ANYONE
ELSE IS SPEAKING UP AND IF
NEITHER OF THEM CAN DO IT I'LL
BE COMING BACK.
YEAH THANK YOU.
THEY'RE ENOUGH OK ARE THERE ANY
REPORTS FROM STAFF.
I HAVE A FEELING THAT THERE ARE
I HAVE TWO THINGS TO REPORT
WONDERFUL BY THE FIRST ONE IS
THAT THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT
SURVEY REPORT IS DONE.
WE TOOK DELIVERY OF THESE FROM
COMMONWEALTH HERITAGE.
THE CONSULTANT THAT DID THE
STUDY.
THERE'S AN EXTENSIVE HISTORY
OF THE OLD FOURTH WARD WHICH IS
GREAT BECAUSE WE'VE NEVER HAD
THAT BEFORE AND THEN TAKE A
LOOK AND PASS IT ON AND THEN WE
HAVE THREE VOLUMES OF SURVEY
CARDS FOR REFORMS EACH ONE
THESE ARE TIBBLE FORMS THAT
THEY GIVE TO US EACH ONE YOU
KNOW, BASIC MATERIALITY CHECK
THE BOXES AND THEN IT HAS A
NARRATIVE ARCHITECTURAL
DESCRIPTION, A HISTORY OF THE
RESOURCE AND A STATEMENT
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND THEN ALL
OF THE REFERENCES THAT WERE
USED.
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S REALLY AND
THERE'S A MAP FOR EVERY
PROPERTY TO SHOW YOU WHERE IT
IS.
SO IT'S VERY INTERESTING AND
EXCITING AND YOU GUYS CAN START
USING THIS IMMEDIATELY AS A
DIGITAL COPY.
THERE WILL BE A DIGITAL COPY
WILL BE POSTED ONLINE TOMORROW
.
OKAY YEAH I NEED TO GET IT ON
THE I'M WORKING ON THE CITY
WEBSITE TO POST THEM ALL AND I
HAVE TO HAVE THAT DONE
TOMORROW.
OK IN ORDER TO GET A WRAP TO
REPORT TO THE SHIP OK OK THAT'S
ONE OF THE LAST STEPS SO YOU'LL
BE SEEING THAT SOON.
I'LL SEND OUT AN EMAIL AND COPY
ALL OF YOU ON IT WHEN THAT'S
AVAILABLE WITH A LINK.
>> SO HOW MANY PAGES PER LIKE
SO PER PROPERTY IS IT THREE OR
FOUR PAGES OR SOMETHING.
>> IT'S ONE TWO THREE IT'S A
MINIMUM OF FOUR AND MANY
OF THEM HAVE FIVE, FOUR OR FIVE
TIMES THREE AND FIFTY YEAH.
>> ISH.
SO WHEN WE HAVE A PROJECT
COMING THROUGH AN OLD FOURTH
WARD PROJECT HOW WILL YOU USE
THIS REPORT IN DIFFERENT THAN
YOUR NORMAL PROCESS?
WELL, IT'S NOT DIFFERENT.
IT'S JUST A LITTLE MORE
DETAILED.
OK, BECAUSE WE DIDN'T HAVE THIS
INFORMATION AND I WOULD HAVE TO
BASICALLY LOOK UP THE HISTORY
TO FIGURE IT OUT AND WRITE IT
OUT.
OK TO YOUR WAY.
YEAH.
NOW I'LL JUST BE ABLE TO LOOK
AT THIS AND SAY PAGE 750
KINGSLY YOU KNOW IT WAS BUILT
IN 1899 FOR ISAAC DUNNE.
YEAH OK.
SO THERE'S ALL THERE'S A I
BASICALLY WILL BE ABLE TO JUST
ATTACH THIS TO THIS REPORT OK
AND SAY SEE ON FOURTH QUARTER
ATTACHED IT'S GREAT AND THERE
ARE PHOTOS AND THEY TOOK PHOTOS
OF SIGNIFICANT OUTBUILDINGS NOT
ABOUT CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES
BUT CONTRIBUTING GARAGES AS
WELL AS YOU COULD SEE THEM FROM
THE STREET.
YEAH.
AND IT'S VERY, VERY EXCITING
AND LARGE AND I'M HAPPY THAT
DID THE SURVEYORS GO PROPERTY
BY PROPERTY AND MAKE A JUDGMENT
AS TO THIS IS CONTRIBUTING THIS
IS NOT CONTRIBUTING.
>> THEY DID THEN I REVIEWED
THOSE AND THERE WERE ABOUT OH
TEN OR TWELVE PROPERTIES THAT
THEY RECOMMENDED TO BE
NONCONTRIBUTING OK SEVERAL
OF THOSE THIS BODY HAD ALREADY
DETERMINED TO BE CONTRIBUTING.
OH SO THOSE ARE THERE STILL
CONTRIBUTING INTEREST SO
NOTHING HAS CHANGED THE ONES
THAT THEY HAD QUESTIONS ABOUT
THEY HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE
WORKING ON THIS PROJECT.
YEAH.
AND AT THE BEGINNING THERE WAS
A PROBLEM WITH CONSISTENCY IN
BETWEEN REVIEWERS.
YEAH.
AND SOMEBODY WAS USING
DIFFERENT CRITERIA.
YEAH.
AND SO WE'VE WE'VE GONE THROUGH
THOSE OK YEAH I MEAN I'M JUST
THINKING OF THE OBVIOUS THING
WHERE IF I OWN A PROPERTY AND
THERE'S SOME CHANGE TO IT OR
SOMETHING I DON'T KNOW IT JUST
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S
RAMIFICATIONS THERE.
>> YEAH WELL IF IF ONE OF THESE
PROPERTIES JUST LIKE WITH ANY
SURVEY REPORT YEAH.
THE COMMISSION DETERMINED THAT
IT WAS A NONCONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE WE WOULD JUST CHANGE
IT IN THE SURVEY YOU KNOW PUT A
LITTLE ADDENDUM ON THERE.
YEAH RIGHT.
WITH THE COMMISSION'S DECISION
ON THE DATE AND OR VICE VERSA.
NO YEAH OK YEAH YEAH YEAH.
INTERESTING.
YEAH WELL THAT'S EXCITING.
YEAH
IT IS.
OH AND THIS IS ALSO EXCITING.
MARIANA AND I HAVE A NEW
SCHEDULE TO LAYOUT AN OVERHAUL
OF THE DESIGN GUIDELINES.
OH MY THIS WILL TAKE THIS IS
WHY IT'S WONDERFUL TO HAVE
ANOTHER EMPLOYEE YOU KNOW
HISTORIC PRESERVATION IT'LL
PROBABLY TAKE MAYBE A YEAR AND
THIS IS OUR PLAN.
IT'S THIS IS THIS IS OUR SKETCH
OF A CONCEPT PLAN IS THAT
STARTING NEXT MONTH WE WILL
BRING TO YOU A CHAPTER CHAPTER
ONE INTRODUCTION WILL BE NEXT
MONTH AND WE WILL GIVE YOU A
MEMO OR SOMETHING ALONG WITH IT
THAT SAYS OK, HERE'S WHERE WE
PROBLEMS.
TAKE A LOOK AT THIS AND THEN
THAT'S AT THE OCTOBER MEETING
IN NOVEMBER.
THERE WILL BE A TIME ON THE
AGENDA FOR HGC TO GIVE US YOUR
FEEDBACK THAT WAY YOU'VE GOT
TIME TO LOOK AT IT.
WE DON'T HAVE TO SIT HERE WITH
EVERY SINGLE LITTLE LINE THAT
STAFF WANTS TO CHANGE AND SAY,
YOU KNOW, YEAH, I KNOW WHATEVER
MAY BE.
CAN YOU GO OVER THAT AGAIN?
I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT BUT WE CAN DO
THAT IF WE NEED TO AT THE NEXT
MEETING AND THEN AT THE
NOVEMBER MEETING WE'LL GIVE YOU
CHAPTER TWO AND WE'LL GO OVER
THAT IN DECEMBER.
THE FIRST COUPLE OF MONTHS ARE
GOING TO BE A LOT EASIER.
YEAH.
THEN WHEN WE GET INTO THE
REALLY LONG CHAPTERS IN THE
MIDDLE BUT WE'LL HAVE THOSE IN
THE WINTER WHEN IT'S A LITTLE
BIT SLOWER AROUND HERE ANYWAY.
BUT AND IF IT DOESN'T WORK WE
CAN YOU KNOW, WE CAN REVISE OUR
PROCESS OR WHATEVER WE NEED TO
DO BUT THESE WERE ADOPTED IN
2006 AND WE REALLY NEED TO
MAYBE 2008.
WE REALLY NEED TO GO THROUGH
THEM.
>> IT'S BUT IT'S MOSTLY TO ADD
IN POLICIES THAT YOU GUYS HAVE
ALREADY BEEN DOING IN PRACTICE
ANYWAY.
IT'S NOT LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO
CHANGE DRAMATICALLY BUT IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR APPLICANTS TO GET
STUFF IN THERE WHEN YOU'VE
ALREADY ESSENTIALLY WRITTEN A
POLICY FOR IT AND THERE'S A FEW
LITTLE WONKY THINGS HERE IN
THERE THAT'S GREAT.
YEAH.
SO IT SEEMS ABOUT ABOUT TIME.
SO WE'LL WE'LL PUT IT ON THE
YEAH.
AGENDA FOR NEXT MONTH AND SEE
SO WE'LL WE'LL PUT IT ON THE
HOW IT GOES.
AGENDA FOR NEXT MONTH AND SEE
FANTASTIC.
HOW IT GOES.
I'M SURE THIS ISN'T LOST IN THE
FANTASTIC.
THESE BACK TO ANYTHING ELSE
I'M SURE THIS ISN'T LOST IN THE
FROM STAFF THAT'S FROM STAFF.
THESE BACK TO ANYTHING ELSE
>> OK THANK YOU.
FROM STAFF THAT'S FROM STAFF.
OK LET'S MOVE ON.
>> OK THANK YOU.
>> ANY CONCERNS
OK LET'S MOVE ON.
OF COMMISSIONERS.
>> ANY CONCERNS
NO COMMUNICATIONS THIS MONTH.
OF COMMISSIONERS.
>> NO ON WELL IN THAT CASE I
NO COMMUNICATIONS THIS MONTH.
NOW ADJOURN THE SEPTEMBER 12TH
>> NO ON WELL IN THAT CASE I
HGC MEETING AT EIGHT THIRTY ONE
NOW ADJOURN THE SEPTEMBER 12TH
DONE.
HGC MEETING AT EIGHT THIRTY ONE
THANK YOU